I don't think that in my quarter century of living I've ever felt more disconnected from the pop-culture at large than after seeing this movie. With all the hype and uniform praise I thought beforehand that this is at least a solid piece of cinematic craft, maybe embellished slightly by Heath Ledger's unexpected death.Unfortunately, this movie is rock solid proof that sometimes mass delusion can strike an entire society at one time. There is absolutely no way that this film can be regarded not just as a masterpiece, but even as half-way decent.Let's get to the point. First - the plot. It's just unconvincing as a whole. Batman is basically a side character with little to do as he takes backseat on the Joker train. He whines incessantly about how no one needs him and how he needs to hang up his cape. Do it already! His troubled relationship with Rachel Dawes has zero chemistry and it's hard to care about the outcome. The idea of Joker being an anarchist, goalless and malevolent force sounds good on paper, but it translates to aimlessness on the screen. Joker shows up out of nowhere seemingly with no one backing him and then... snap! It seems like the whole world is at his service. Not only he has no trouble hijacking a school bus (and then blending into a line of school buses after driving out of a half collapsed bank), hacking into the public TV feed or rigging an entire hospital with explosives; he apparently does it with such ease that the creators didn't feel the need to reveal a shred of information about how he did it. Many events in the movie make absolutely no sense whatsoever. For example - what was the purpose of Lt. Gordon faking his death? And why did they make a point of showing the scene where his family is informed of the death - was that just to get the audience to buy into it as well? That's just dumb and a waste of time. Why did Harvey Dent become evil all of a sudden? Sure he was badly burned, but he had to know the risks going into this business and he had a steely resolve just minutes prior. There are many other plot issues, but it's pointless listing them all. They are there and easy to spot.The acting in the movie is a-OK, but most of the actors just don't have any good lines as their characters are irrelevant puppets. Heath Ledger is good for sure, but his take on the character gets tedious after a while - mostly from overexposure. Maggie Gyllenhaal is a good actress, but she's just so wrong for the role. She's a nice-girl-next-door type and as superficial as it sounds, it's hard to believe that she would have two hotshots like Harvey Dent and Bruce Wayne chasing after her. Christian Bale has zero material to work with and they've turned Morgan Freeman into a moralizing nerd. Gary Oldman, Aaron Eckhart and especially Michael Caine do a decent job considering the script they were given to work with.The screenplay is atrocious, incongruent and messy. It's like the movie was cut-up into a thousand pieces of varying length, reshuffled and then strung together. There is no natural progression of events and subsequent scenes frequently befuddle. It takes a couple of minutes to figure out what the hell is going on or why should we care. It's just poorly done.For all the car chases, fight scenes, and giant explosions, the movie is just unforgivably boring. It's a combination stemming from a poor script, naive (or barely existent) plot, flat characters (that can't be remotely identified with much less loved or hated), and a general lack of good sense. There is also an annoying feeling that the creators had a rather low opinion of the viewers intelligence or maybe they just rushed the movie and had to come up with a lot of material in a little time, hence the low quality.Before I end this overlong diatribe, let me just mention three scenes that I absolutely cannot get over with in terms of their pointlessness and stupidity. 1. Batman is riding his wicked-cool motorcycle approaching an aftermath of a multi vehicle crash and accelerates aiming it straight at the Joker. What he is trying to accomplish is never explained. One thing certain is that at the last moment he veers right, barely avoiding the villain, and drives his bike without touching the brakes, straight into a wall. I mean he drives it into a wall (or overturned truck, can't remember) full speed like a blind man. Had he even chosen to hit the Joker, how the hell did he expect to stop? 2. This one actually occurs a couple of times at least. Batman leaps out of a 20th story window and falls onto the ground unharmed. Unharmed! He didn't have a parachute, a bungee cord, and he didn't even spread his cape on the way down. He just hit full blast and walked away. And on one occasion his squeeze Ms Dawes fell with him and experienced a similarly puzzling lack of after-effects. Filmmakers, needless to say, didn't find it prudent to even try to provide some explanation.3. Joker enters the hospital in a nurse uniform. That should present a logistical problem by itself, but OK. However, not only he seems to move around the hospital freely, he also does it still wearing his face paint. I mean the lower half his face is covered by a protective mask, but the rest is clearly visible. What's even funnier is that Harvey Dent looks at Joker straight in the eyes and the face paint doesn't give him away until he takes of the mask. Is this a cartoon?
This movie is a non-plot action-packed propaganda movie. Which wouldn't be so bad but the combination is such that it IS the worst movie I have ever seen in my whole life. Seriously, when I came out of the movie theatre I was sick and angry at the same time. The whole movie is about approach towards the various kinds of villains, how they are and how they should be generally handled. You have about twenty propaganda lines, towards which each part of the film leads, those parts connected by a very feeble link. You could almost see the authors as they thought, hmm, we need to put this line into the movie, what circumstances will lead the hero or antihero to tell the audience this truth? Of course that made the movie a two hour drag where the twists and turns of fortune made you think if it wasn't a 10yr old child who wrote it. Ha, the setup worked we caught the Joker. Oh, Joker escaped, what are we gonna do? Then the good guys would realize that Joker wanted them to set up a trap, he wanted to be caught so as to get ..., escape and harm even more. Well, that is so childishly ridiculous, first surrealistic propaganda movie ever. So guys out there in the US remember. When you get spied through your cell phones, when your dear ones die in stead of a rich undercover agent, don't feel offended. Because to fight the "crime" or "terrorism", we don't need the good heroes (those apparently end up as dead half-faced wackos). We need dark knights. Sorry for my bad English. I needed to get this off my chest. So much approval, 9.2 user rating here, 94% on rottentomatoes, are that many people so simple or so easily bought?
I was not expecting this film to live up to the hype, but it didn't even come close to living up to my lowered expectations. I give it 3 stars only for Heath Ledger's performance, which was very original and nicely done, but still not deserving of the rave reviews it has been receiving. Even his excellent performance was brought down by the horrible script he had to work with.It's all been said before, but:The acting of every cast member except for Heith Ledger was wooden and utterly boring.The Batman character was unsympathetic and had none of the appeal that was built up in "Batman Begins" of a tormented soul nonetheless trying to do good. In this film he is both boring, nasty, and indecisive.Every fight scene was mechanical, unoriginal, shot in dim lighting, and used none of the stealth that Batman is supposed to use.Batman's voice was laughable and got worse as the film dragged on.Way too many convoluted and disconnected subplots to keep track of. I had no idea where the story was going at any point in time, and didn't care. I watched this on DVD and started fast-forwarding through large chunks about 2 hours into the movie; should have done this sooner.Every character spouted sophomoric monologues about good and evil that were unconvincing. A good script gets these messages across using the plot and actions of the characters, not through monologues.The Joker's various schemes and escapes were impossible to believe even in the context of a comic good movie. How could the Joker walk into a hospital, with full makeup on, and walk right up to Harvey Dent, who is unguarded, *after* the Joker has already kidnapped and disfigured Dent once, *and* the Joker has announced he is going to attack a hospital? This kind of thing happened countless times. I love comic book movies (e.g., Xmen 1 & 2, Iron Man), but in the good ones you can believe that the events would actually happen within the context of the fantasy world of the story.The love triangle story felt tacked-on. What in the story showed you that Bruce Wayne and Rachel, or Harvey Dent and Rachel, had any affection for each other? You are just supposed to accept all of this without any effort by the scriptwriters or actors.The Joker has an endless crew of henchmen, but why would any criminal agree to work for the Joker after he assassinates his entire crew in the first scene? Why would any criminal agree to work for him if his goal is just to cause chaos and not to earn money, and he burns all the money he earns? Don't criminals normally want to get money out of risking their lives to commit crimes?Two and a half hours is way too long. An hour could have been cut without missing it. Compare this to any truly great movie (Gandhi, Godfather 1 & 2), where several hours just fly by.The scriptwriters couldn't decide whether to make this a "realistic" drama or a comic book for the screen. So they flip-flopped back and forth. Case in point: a witness on the stand pulls out a gun, Harvey Dent disarms him, and then wants to continue examining the witness. This is slapstick and is impossible to swallow if we are supposed to believe this is the "real world," but it could work if the whole movie set a "comic book" tone in which ridiculous things like this happen. But it didn't, so the inconsistencies are just jarring. At least the Tim Burton films -- and even the campy 1960s Batman TV show! -- created an internally consistent world.I was ready for the movie to be over, when in comes a whole separate story about Two Face. It was completely out of place with whatever plot arc still existed at that point. Plus, the transformation of Harvey Dent's character into Two Face made no sense, as did his ability to survive a car-flipping accident. Then we witness him shoot Batman, who we have already seen surviving hundreds of bullets without a scratch, and we are supposed to be surprised when Batman leaps up again, unharmed?I could write another whole review just listing more plot holes.Again, I am a big fan of comic book movies and even enjoyed Batman Begins, but this was a real loser.
This movie was so wildly praised by critics and fans alike that it was hard not to have somewhat diminished expectations. It can't be *that* great, right? Right.I can't say this is a bad movie, just not a very interesting one. It begins promisingly with a superbly executed set piece, with the Joker staging a daring bank robbery. This is a very nicely done action sequence, and Heath Ledger's Joker does indeed live up to the hype. It's a genuinely strange characterization, and the story built around it should work.After that, the movie starts to drag. There are far too many long, talky sequences, followed by the usual slam-bang action scenes that are shot from a distance so you can't see what's really going on. What's really missing from the action is any sense of a story; there's just more of the same that you usually see in a superhero picture. Been there, done that.Another fatal mistake is one that happens far too often: too many villains. This was a major problem with the 90s Batman films: you have to squeeze the Penguin and Catwoman and Christopher Walken into one film, with no time left for anything like character development. In this movie, the focus is on the Joker, but that's not enough: we have Two-Face into the mix (who only becomes Two-Face at the two-hour mark, leaving only a short time for him to be dispatched by our hero).Two-Face was my favorite of the old Batman Rogues Gallery, and he deserved a story all his own. Throwing him in as an afterthought to the Joker (particularly when Ledger's scenery chewing overshadows everything else in the picture, including Batman) both makes the film far too long, and blunts its impact.Lost somewhere in all this is Batman, who almost seems absent from the picture. Although he has to make a tragic choice, there seems to be no character development, and Bale's performance is practically phoned in. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman contribute their customary gravitas, but again this just adds to the extreme length of the picture.Batman Begins was a strong picture, and I'm puzzled as to what I'm missing here. I saw this on Blu-Ray and found myself reaching for the remote every ten minutes or so, to see how much longer I was going to have to watch this. I finally hit Stop by accident at 2 hrs., but decided to just let it go. This movie failed to engage my interest on any level and I just wanted it to end.
This is a great movie to watch when you're completely drunk and likely to miss the following things:1) An aimless doddering plot full of obvious contrivances. 2) Numerous and massive implausibilities, (even given the comic-book setting).3) Endless philosophical blather that is about as deep as a sidewalk puddle <U+0096> typical of the superficial drivel flowing out of Hollywood these days. I believe it was written by Paris Hilton.4) A 3+ hour movie that should have been edited to an hour and a half.Ledger put in a decent performance, and Morgan Freeman is always professional.But even the action, which can be a saving grace for a fun "brain-off" adventure flick, was full of visual flaws.Yawwwwn.


                
Too long, too dark, and too serious. The darkness is unavoidable - but exacerbated by the length, and the fact that for a movie about a superhero, it is entirely too serious. No matter how hard we try, the idea of a superhero is still a bit crazy. Imagine Bill Gates or Warren Buffet as superheroes - it's silly. So why does the film take itself so seriously? Also, it seems that the Batman story slips to the side in parts, as though the film is intent on tackling too many issues all at once. This isn't said to be contrary - the movie can be legitimately difficult to watch. It's simply too long for the content. It's not a bad film - but it's not an all-time great either.


                
Like many a thing, keeping it simple is one way to make it good. As much as I loved Batman Begins, I disliked The dark Knight. The movie wanted to cram so many sub-plots into it that at some time I didn't know exactly where it was going. And is this movie really about Batman??? If it was, there are some features in it that made it look like a CHEAP Batman:1. OK, Wayne's manor was destroyed, blah blah. But making Batman roar out of a CONTAINER??? Can we make this any cheaper? An underground lair for Batman that seems to contain NOTHING but a table and a chair and a few other stuff???? Production could have made a little effort there, really... 2. Batman's costume, frankly didn't look THAT better than the Batman wanna-bes.And what's that fuss about dogs? Batman's costume isn't dog proof. It's bullet proof, fire-proof, shock-proof and nearly stupid-proof but please don't unleash the dogs on poor Batman... pathetic, really.The movie in itself does not lack action and blow-away special effects, but the storyline really lacks of substance. We see Batman in a supporting role, to do what others ask him to do, we don't see Batman as the leader and coming up with unexpected plans and twists - U gotta bring back the Chinese guy, OK I'll go. -U gotta save the hostages, I'll go. U gotta do this, do that? I'll go. Anything else? Tea or Coffee anyone?Not the best movie, at any cost. Not of the year nor of any time, sorry...
I'm pretty serious about this one because I love movies. And since this movie is being rated as the best movie of all time, I was expecting something that could measure itself with the great movies of all time. I expected a movie that grips you, crawls under your skin and leaves you breathless. It does none of that. It is pretentious and inconsistent. It pretends to dig deep and dark and explore themes like morality, fate, good versus evil, heart versus mind, madness versus reason, and at the same time it wants to be this big spectacular action movie. But it fails miserably. It's all just a big clumsy pretentious inconsistent mess.Yes, Ledger is good, but for his performance to really contribute to the movie, there should have been context. If the rest just doesn't feel right, it looses its potential. If you throw a diamond on a mountain of poop, it doesn't change much of the way it looks or smells. Love interest Maggie Gyllenhaal (great performance in Stranger than Fiction) produces no chemistry at all, so I wasn't really blown away when she was blown up. Editing feels weird. But most of all it was the inconsistencies that got to me. And then not just the 'practical' ones (like the inconsistent protective quality of the batman suit; or why leave an extremely dangerous criminal unrestrained with a tubby policeman in his cell ('hostage volunteer? you, tubby?'); a schoolbus is used twice to make a grand escape? - do they come with teleporter machines these days?; why would you want to ride your batmobile face down?; Batman lowers his voice to be unrecognizable, but how hard is it to follow a batmobile with a helicopter to its hiding place?), but more importantly it's crucial plot/ morality inconsistencies. Yes, the White Knight went through some traumatic experiences, but to turn to the dark side so wholeheartedly and sadistically? And then to just let the Joker (at least indirectly responsible for his trauma) walk when he only needs to pull the trigger? Oh yeah, forgot, he's Mr. Coin Toss now. But even if he is guided by blind fate now, he still determines himself who he goes after and whether it's OK to threaten to blow out the brains of little kids. And then the Big Bad criminal who throws the detonator out off the window. Ah! The Joke is on you Joker! People are not what you make them out to be. Even the baddest bad ass has a good heart. Never mind that just before when the Joker threatened to blow up a hospital unless an innocent lawyer was killed, there was a crowd with guns ready to shoot the guy within no time. Also, what with the vote on the 'good people boat'? They vote to blow up the 'bad people' (democracy at its finest) but then Nobody has the balls to do it? So they don't blow up the other boat because they think it's unjust, but because they're spineless hypocrites.I applaud movies that try and deal with complex issues like conflicting emotions or morals, but to just make a big soup of it all under the pretense of 'but that's how life works, it's conflicting ideas, feelings and actions' is just a weak excuse for the inability or laziness to produce a good consistent story. Believe me, I detest black and white thinking and applaud the exploration of the Grey area. But that's not what this movie does. Piling a bunch of random inconsistent ideas on top of each other is not equal to exploring the Grey area.The climax is the ending though (it usually is). Our dark knight has to sacrifice himself, has to live like a hunted animal in the shadow, because the People would not be able to cope with the idea of Denth doing bad things, despite his recent traumas. So it's better to LIE to the public, because they are too stupid to make up their own mind and their faith in goodness of man would be lost forever (despite the fact that they just tried to establish with the boat-thing that there's goodness even in big bad criminals). So Batman (whose enemies take advantage of the fact that he doesn't kill) takes the blame for a bunch of random killings that could have been linked to anyone - a Joker perhaps? (even if they wanted to absolve Denth from his crimes -I mean, evidence/motive would have been needed to link it to Batman too?) and goes off running ('run Forrest!') into the night to save us another day. Because you just can't trust people to make up their own mind, it's better to lie to them. It's for their own good. Great morale. Straight from the White House? But ey, why so serious?
I actually agree with almost every comment in the "Hated It" category. This was an enormously over-hyped and overblown flick - but apparently the explosion-and-violent-chase fans are rating as one of the greatest movies ever, despite a collection of plot holes that resembles the face of a tennis racket. I can understand their enthusiasm, but what was going through the minds of the professional reviewers??? I've seen them pick apart unto death much better flicks than this. Their bitch meters should have gone straight to the infrared, but instead they turned into pompon-wavers. Were they paid off? I have one extra comment on the plot. When the Joker is in police custody, one of the first things they would have done was wipe off all the clown makeup. Without it, this guy becomes a nothing - Samson without his hair. Then they just bury him in some out-of-state max security pen (and label him a child molester, by way of revenge), and all Gotham's troubles go back to same-old same-old. SSDD.Unlike most, I saw this movie first on DVD. It damn near drove me crazy: if I could get my hands around the neck of the Sound Director, he'd be dead meat. The explosions and demolition-derby car chases like to blow out the speakers on my TV - and then half the dialog is done at a virtual whisper! I practically wore out the volume buttons on my remote: up and down, up and down, ad infinitum. You want to sit back and just enjoy a movie, not have to continually stop it and go back because muting down the explosions caused you to miss the first five sentences of dialog. I dropped my vote three places just for this alone. It was THAT infuriating.As for the Oscars, Ledger's award HAD to be a sympathy vote. If he hadn't committed suicide (nobody can take that many different drugs accidentally), would he have even been nominated? His acting was pretty much just Jack Nicholson's Joker on angel dust. (Art imitating life???) Of course, the Academy keeps throwing statuettes at Nicholson, when in every role he's played he just played Jack Nicholson. He's got THAT character down pat.
The marketing worked well enough for this Batman. The viewers were convinced that they will see the greatest movie of all times. Ha! I'm not being surprised. Its Heath Ledgers death that helped to that kind of placebo. I deeply want to believe that those deifying ratings of imdbs commentators was only a short of homage to that admittedly great actor. I can understand that. But only that.Come on guys! Look into your mirror and ask yourself loudly "was this the greatest movie i ever seen?". It was just another Batman's movie and in my personal opinion a bad one.I spend 2 hours and a half of my life to see that crap and I'm trying to understand why all this enthusiasm? First of all the batman's voice turned the whole movie into a comedy. OK batman have to use another voice so they cannot recognize him. Nolan wanted a realism. Where is the realism when a little truck catches up and destroys the police's convoy, when only a policeman stays into the inquisitive room to watch over Joker, when Joker gets like he was invisible into a hospital where Dent's in there, when Dent shoots the car driver and the car capsizes but Dents gets out in full health and many other unrealistic things you can detect to the movie.From now on I'm not gonna trust again the ratings of imdbs users. The level went dangerously down. They put a second-rate movie upwards of masterpieces like like Pulp Fiction, Clockwork Orange, Taxi Driver. That's a shame.p.s.: Why an actor like Michael Cain prefers to play in such roles man? He needs so desperately money? What the hell? I will give him my credit card. Qualitative cinema needs him most.


                
I know people will hate me for giving this movie 2 stars, but allow me to explain why the rating is deserved. I watched this movie twice and my initial impression of it was confirmed on the second viewing. The tagline of the movie is "Welcome to a world without rules." But even someone who likes the movie must realize this is absurd, because the rules of the film are strictly defined from the start. Batman is PERFECT GOOD, and the Joker is PERFECT EVIL. Whenever it's the cops versus Batman in this movie, we know the cops are wrong and Batman is on the side of good. He's just that good. And the Joker is so evil that he doesn't even have a motive. He's there to create a force of perfect chaos which Batman is duty-bound to fight.To deny that this movie is about terrorism is to deny the well-executed thrill elements such as the videos released to the press and closed-circle moral tests (on the ferries; similar to United 93). These are borrowed directly from the terrorist playbook, and one persistent element, the ticking time-bomb scenario which Batman solves by brutally beating people up until he gets the information he wants, is derived from our fear of terrorism even though ticking time-bombs NEVER happen in real life. When you compare the movie to reality, though, an outrageous discrepancy is made evident. Terrorists are not born psychopaths like the Joker. They are poor, scared people driven to violence only by persistent reinforcement of hatred and duty. That's WHY there are no ticking time-bombs: true psychopaths do not act like the Joker, and terrorists are not true psychopaths.In this movie, the only mistake Batman makes is when he injures himself swerving his motorcycle so that he doesn't kill the Joker. He is just too good to kill his enemy. Three thousand years of storytellers are laughing themselves to tears in Heaven at our image of a hero. Read Shakespeare. Read the Iliad. See if you can figure out for yourself what kind of travesty this is.The areas where this film deviates from standard superhero crap only condemn it further. Batman creates a magical cell phone network, which his buddy says a violation of privacy; the film makes his buddy out to be a spineless coward, because Batman needs his magic to do good. Do you see the problem here? Here it is: Batman doesn't exist in real life.To call this movie the best film of the year, or, as IMDb currently reckons it, the best film of all time, is to admit that we want to believe in a world where good battles evil. It creates a worldview where "good" people will not have to admit their own problems, and "evil" people can be rounded up and beaten half to death without any moral qualms. It is EXACTLY this kind of mentality which has caused the war in Iraq, Abu Ghraib, and Guantanamo Bay.I award this movie eight stars for execution, but subtract five stars for its incorrect, dehumanizing, and morally stunted outlook on human nature. Thus, it ends up with three stars, which I think is more than generous.
It starts with a pretty good story line, and good characters, Batman, the mob, the joker, and the attorney are all OK. There are great actions scenes, the kidnapping "over the air" in Hong Kong is really cool. But after the half of the movie, it turns down: the attorney's girl friend gets killed, OK, and he gets crazy, after 20 years fighting crime, he doesn'st know about casualties? in front of the gangster, he shoots his driver: non-sense! he kidnappes the most honest cop's family: non-sense! voting for survival in the boats : total non-sense! and what do excellent actors like Oldman, Caine, Freeman in such a waste ? Sorry, i'd like my money back..
I sat down with this movie after knowing that most people loved and seemed to venerate it. But I have a lot of perspective. I was reading Batman comics back in 1957, and I have seen all of the greatest movies ever made. This just isn't one of them. I did not care about anyone. The action was remorseless and unnecessary, one could even say gratuitous. I even turned it off by the 2-hour mark because it got so maudlin and disjointed. I did read something about people voting this into fifth position of the greatest 250 movies ever made, and clearly this shows the weight of current voters who have little experience with good movies. Why, they should be asked, does Citizen Kane, a 1941 movie always rank as the best movie ever? Because it had story, wonderful acting, human nature, and on and on, all things missing from Dark Knight.Movies today are thrown together with lots of action, preposterous stories, and computer effects. Characters survive falls and bangs that would put anyone, including a linebacker for the NFL, in hospital for a week or more. As with another reviewer, I am now finding it hard to remember to much about this movie, but I can remember every scene in a great movie, like The Maltese Falcon, etc.


                
I was could not wait to see this movie on the opening weekend. The critics and audiences everywhere were giving this movie such high praises. So I rushed to my local theater to catch what could be a known as the greatest superhero movie ever made in history. Two hours and something minutes later after the movie was done I realized the greatest thing ever made in history was the marketing package for The Dark Knight. Boy, did they over-hype this colossal nonsense of a movie.SPOILERS! 1) I don't understand why the martial arts style, Keysi, was used in the film. It just doesn't look cinematically pleasing in any sense. In the documentary for Batman Begins, the choreographers wanted Batman to look like an angry beast that would just run over people with his attacks. They didn't want to make the fighting look like a dance (like traditional Wushu). Great. So then what they decided to do was get a bunch of guys who look like they made a fighting style up. They look like monkeys hammer fisting each other! If you don't believe me check out the documentary: (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zVWyqBdE5RI). As a result the fighting was clumsy, poorly staged, and filmed. Batman is supposed to be stealthy, nimble, yet powerful. But instead, he moves heavily and lethargically.2) Choppy plot development: Right after Batman dives off the building to save Rachel, what happens to the Joker? We're made to assume he left because Dent was not there. But was that it? Joker crashes a party, finds nothing, and just leaves? It's a movie about The Batman vs. The Joker!!! It's their first interaction with each other – isn't that suppose to be a grand event??!! Nope, instead Joker drops Rachel, Batman goes to save her, and Joker leaves the party. Its plot points like that that really weakens the movie. Another example is Batman's batpod chase throughout the city. At the very end of the sequence, Batman hurls himself at the Joker and falls off the bike. WTF???? No grand battle between good and evil? No epic moments of struggle between the two forces? Then James Gordon saves The Batman? Then why do we need Batman???? Which brings me to another point<U+0085> 3) WHY EXPLAIN SO MUCH? I DON'T CARE WHERE BATMAN GOT ALL OF HIS TOYS!!! It's like every scene had to explain why Batman could do what he does. Batman can bend guns cause his gauntlets have steel clamps built in them, Batman has white eyes because it's part of the sonar technology, Batman can now move his head around because the suit is now segmented instead of being once piece, Luscious Fox helps Batman utilized an escape method that was used in the 1960's by the military and so on and so on and so on and so on<U+0085>.If Batman is suppose to be this mythic creature, then why bother to demystify him at all? From the way they are explaining Batman, it just seems as if ANYBODY can be Batman. All you have to do is get martial arts training and a lot of money and that's it – NOW YOU ARE THE BATMAN. I can understand the explanations being used in Batman Begins, because it was an origins story, but in the Dark Knight, let's see why he's so good. Why only Bruce Wayne can be The Batman.4) And why all the philosophizing? I can understand the serious themes of the Batman mythos. In the books like "Arkham Asylum: Serious House on Serious Earth", ""The Long Halloween, Brian Azarello's "Joker" they take the time to explore the Dark Knight's world and the characters that inhabit them, but without trying to cram pompous banalities into your mind. In between the action scenes were benign philosophical interludes that were pretentious. And Batman talks way too much. Yes, Batman is more than just a muscle bound superhero, but couldn't we see that through his work as a Detective (which is what he is)? And the voice Christian Bale used was horrible to begin with so making him ramble on and on about right and wrong wasn't appealing at all.5) This movie was The Joker movie. It wasn't about the Batman. Nolan said he tried to make it more about the hero. He didn't want to make the "mistake" that Burton did with his Batman films where the hero was more of a minor character. Nolan repeated that mistake. Joker was once again the main focus of the movie.6) It was way too long. The movie should've ended after Batman defeated the Joker. Why bring Two Face into the picture at this point (where I was getting ready to leave the theater)? I really wished they saved Two Face for the third movie.So hopefully in the third movie they take a step back and really try to slow it down a bit. I know Nolan was ambitious in his creation of the sequel, but I felt like those ambitions blinded his ability to see the details. Too be honest<U+0085>I probably should have just rented this instead of paying $15 for the IMAX showing.
Those looking for some fun, a bit of entertainment, will be disappointed by The Dark Knight. It's almost as if the director is trying not to make a superhero film at all, its desperate attempts to make everything plausible and gritty ignoring the fact that the two protagonists are actually a mad clown and a man who dresses as a bat...Fair enough if you don't want to make a superhero film, but if you don't want to make said film please don't pick one of the most famous superheroes of all time to drag down into an overlong grim-fest with far too much standing around and discussion of the film's plot.As with the (superior) Batman of Tim Burton, once again the Joker dominates the film. The problem is that Ledger's Joker does not really play any jokes, have any gadgets, or try to make anyone laugh. The Joker should be scary AND funny, and Ledger fails in this regard. Bale's Batman is also portrayed as a thug, beating up an imprisoned Joker and dropping a villain out of a building. Isn't Batman supposed to be the 'World's Greatest Detective'? Isn't he supposed to use his brains and intelligence to outwit the villains, rather than just pounding them to a pulp? Perhaps this is a reflection of tactics deemed acceptable by the War on Terror but it isn't the Batman I admire.Dark Knight's claim to realism is also blown out of the water by the Joker's merry band of mental hospital patients (!) managing to install huge amounts of explosives in hospitals, ferries, offices etc without anyone noticing till the conveniently dramatic crucial moment. Finally, the Batman rescues the Joker from falling to his death, because, after all, Bats is a hero. Sadly this contradicts his actions in Batman Begins where he refuses to save Ducard from certain death on the stricken Gotham monorail.Overall, the film leaves a nasty taste in the mouth. For some viewers, the darker the better, and as a teenager I'm sure I would have loved this film. But if you want dark, watch a horror or a thriller, and leave superheroes alone to be larger than life. I'm not advocating a return to the days of the Joel Schumacher neon-nightmares, but this film should have allowed Batman to have a bit of fun, and be less of a thug.
The trick to these comic book superhero movies is not to take the source material too seriously. That's what made the original Batman from the 1980's, with Jack Nickolson as the Joker, work so well; everything about that movie, including all the main characters, was over the top, and rightfully so. We are, after all, talking about a man who goes out and fights crime while dressed up as a bat. How seriously, really, are we supposed to take such a notion? But this movie (among its various other flaws) takes itself WAY too seriously. It's supposed to be some deep, even epic, tale of, well, something. But, hey, if I want that, I could read Homer. Or Shakespeare. Or watch "The Godfather". Stories that truly are epic, in no small part because they feature real human characters, not ones that came out of a cartoon book.That said, I can only review so much of this movie because, quite honestly, I don't remember all that much from it. Nothing about it truly stood out in my mind, other than that the general theme seemed to be to inflict upon the audience several scenes of considerable cruelty and sadism. And, unlike in other movies where these qualities played a significant role (Silence of the Lambs, Apocalypse Now), here these elements seem to exist solely for shock value, not because they actually add anything to our deeper understanding of the story.Which brings us to the character of the Joker. Let me be blunt - Nickolson's Joker was at least ten times better than this one. Both are completely unbelievable, but Jack's Joker was at least interesting, even fun. He was a pleasure to watch in much the same way that a good James Bond villain is. But there is nothing pleasurable at all about Heath Ledger's Joker. First off, he is so psychotic that he couldn't function anywhere outside of an insane asylum; he kills off his own henchmen, burns their stolen money before their very eyes, yet this psycho somehow enlists a small army of loyal followers without giving them any reason to be loyal at all, and yet, despite being a complete walking mental meltdown, he manages to put in motion any number of very detailed terrorist plots that would require the exact opposite mindset, namely, one of cold and calculating rationality. In short, as a movie villain, he simply fails. Not only is he not credible at all, his sole contribution to the story is to add the aforementioned cruelty and sadism, making this not only a stupid and unbelievable movie, but a thoroughly depressing one as well. I mean, seriously. If you want to see movie characters who have a dark, twisted, and sadistic streak and yet come off as credible on the screen, one need look no further than such persons as Tommy from "Goodfellas" or Luca Brasi from "The Godfather". But the Joker from this film is just a void. Encountering his character was like stepping on a dog turd. The experience is wholly unpleasant and disgusting, but thankfully you forget about it pretty soon.3/10


                
I tried to get through this. Really I did. And I could appreciate the effort that went into the performances and the wads of dough that must have been spent on special effects. The atmosphere too is lucidly rendered -- night time in the big city.But my enjoyment was hampered by the fact that I'd outgrown most of this stuff about the time I entered High School, and that was when the comic-book Batman still looked like a human being, not a bemuscled behemoth.The experience, the viewing of this, as much of it as I could stand, was exhausting. You have never seen so many vehicles, large and small, racing through the gloomy and deserted urban streets. And every one of them seems to crash and turn into an exploding fireball emitting shards of glass and flaps of unidentifiable metal.The business is taken seriously too. The blows rained upon the victims seem to hurt. The occasional wisecracks from The Joker don't begin to make up for the realistic pain.It all makes me wonder if our peculiar civilization hasn't entered the decadent period that precedes its fall from dominance. At least in the comic books you had to READ the dialog bubbles. Here, no challenge at all. Just sit back and let the despondency overwhelm you.I know, I know. I missed the point. It's just a fantasy. Right enough, but it's somebody else's fantasy, not mine.
In the old days, film-makers told stories. Now they create effects. That tells you pretty much all you need to know about "The Dark Knight." If you like car chases with flashy digitization and sonic booms, you'll love "The Dark Knight." Otherwise, stay home and read a book.Admittedly "The Dark Knight" looks spectacular on an Imax screen, and Heath Ledger has to be a hands down winner of the Best Supporting Actor Oscar. There are also plenty of familiar faces passing through the production -- Michael Caine, once a leading man, doing his by now standard Gielgud imitation as a butler, Morgan Freeman doing his by now standard role as God/CEO/Chief Technology Officer, Maggie Gyllenhall as the prim sexless object of everyone's affections, Christian Bale as the trust fund guy himself, Aaron Eckhart as an untouchable prosecutor. They meander and lurch through a plot so turgid that it isn't even worth diagramming as they face assorted actual and threatened explosions, free falls, assaults with deadly weapons, shattered windows, fires, and the aforementioned vehicle chases. For 152 minutes or so until finally, at long last, the closing credits come up, and everyone can go home.There's no magic, no mystery, no glamor, no insight, no humanity in this movie. It's all "BANG," "POW," ZAP," "CRASH," "BOOM." And it's all pointless.


                
When this film came out, I initially expected it to be just as good as its predecessor, or better. I found Batman Begins to be a very enjoyable movie, with likable characters, terrible adversities, and a fittingly dark atmosphere.After seeing The Dark Knight, I don't see how it can compare.The main problem for me is that this film turned out to be another mushy, woe-is-me pseudo-epic in which the hero does little more than gripe about his problems. Granted, every hero can and should face problems of all sorts, as that is what a story is all about. But all Bruce Wayne does in this film is monologue about how his alter ego has become a new villain (which I never understood) and how he is considering hanging up the cape. So much whining and so little crime-fighting makes Batman look weak.Heath Ledger did a fine job portraying a crazed psycho-killer, but I have to ask the question why he bothered to play such a deranged character at all. I saw the Joker as a villain with a sense of humor, who did terrible things to the citizens of Gotham while throwing off rather lame one-liners and laughing crazily. Ledger's Joker has no sense of humor as far as I could tell, and there is not a single one-liner (lame or otherwise) to be heard. The only time Joker ever laughs is when he is about to cut into another victim or when the Batman is kicking him around the interrogation room: one of the few scenes in the film where the Batman really does anything.Heath Ledger's Joker is also all-powerful. He engineers enormous schemes, almost all of which involve rampant use of explosives, and pulls every one of them off without the slightest snag. He's always at least ten steps ahead of his enemies throughout the movie. The police mindlessly fall into every trap he sets for them almost as though he could see into the future and therefore act accordingly. The Joker is never really stopped, either: in the end, the writers really leave his character hanging... literally.In between Batman's depressing homilies and Joker's demonic mischief, the rest of the film's uncomfortable length is packed full of purposeless explosions, graphic deaths and a cool but needless car chase, all of which do nothing to further the almost nonexistent plot. And to top it all off, in the end Batman flees from the police into the shadows in one of the most confusing endings I've ever seen. The film plays out like a nightmare, not only because it is filmed in such a manner, but because it leaves the viewer with the depressing message that, at least in Gotham City, evil always triumphs over good.In summary, it is a nightmarish and overly long film that could have been a lot better. Great special effects, no plot.3/10
Many people think this is one of the best films of the 21st century. I'm here to assure you that it most certainly isn't. Is Heath Ledger excellent in his role as the Joker? He certainly is, but who cares? This film is so muddled in its own self-importance and at the end of the day, the only thing it truly accomplishes is patronizing its audience for two and a half hours. JUSTICE! LAW! ETHICS! BATMAN!!! Yadda-yadda. Translation: bunkum and hoopla. This film would certainly only have the reputation that it does in our current society of grown children who think that superhero comics are on par with classic literature. Enough is enough. This isn't a great film.


                
I guess I missed the warning on the label."You must be at least this shallow to enjoy the film." This movie had no depth, although it really, really wants you to think that it does.Michael Caine was very good in this film. So was Morgan Freeman.But everything else was just so hollow. Nothing to draw one into the characters.And then the utter repetitiveness of the whole film. The Joker is a bad guy. The message which was relayed in the opening scene was then repeated again, and again, and again, and...And yet through all of this, they couldn't manage to put forth a story that was interesting. Nothing at all. Just excuses for special effects.Not as bad as Spiderman 3, but a really, really overrated film. Heath Ledger acts crazy throughout the film, but in a very, very two dimensional way.Ironic that a movie featuring a character called the Joker failed to have any laughs in it whatsoever.The first re-invented film was good. Things happened for a reason. Things happened that were surprising. Editing occurred.I would rather watch Adam West's Batman, than this. Those stories eventually got to the point.
Batman is a comic strip! The Dark Knight thinks it's Dostoyevsky! Over long, exceedingly tiresome and boring, one note performances, stale CGI stunts with a script that is more pretentious than portentous! Director Chris Nolan gets some marks for subtly taking the rise out of Bush and America, and convincing a very large audience they are watching Fellini, Tarantino, M. Mann and Carol Reed all rolled into one! Yes, folks, if it's dark, it must be a serious film!!!! I loved the holes in the plot(must be deliberate), when The Joker says he is an anarchist, who does not plan, but then produces several stunts that would have required Rand McNally precision and hundreds of accomplices! And please,I know he died under strange circumstances, but Heath Ledger, although not bad,is miles behind Jack Nicholson. As for the rating certificate, the British censor should be thoroughly ashamed of himself, or did he think it was just a Tom and Jerry comic cartoon?
I can't believe what a disappointment this film is. Like everyone else, I too had very high expectations for this movie. I'm far from a movie snob. The only thing I expect from a big summer action flick like this is to be entertained--and I wasn't. I've very much enjoyed Batman Begins--in fact I own the DVD and enjoy re-watching it not infrequently. As I watched the Dark Knight, I felt like I was just waiting for the really good stuff to come that never actually did. The whole thing is full of story lines that go nowhere, unoriginal and uninspired action sequences that never deliver. The Joker is inexplicably indestructible, Batman is practically a bit part and the techno-gizmos are patently absurd. The only reason I'm giving this as high as a 3 is because of Ledger's performance, which was good but far from the pinnacle of acting that you'd expect from the hype. The success and acclaim this incoherent snore-fest has garnered just go to show how effective buzz and hype can be. Bottom line, this is truly a case of the Emporer's New Clothes 2008 edition.


                
Man, what the f**k was that ! There was a time when you knew how to deliver real thrills, set like swiss f***ing watches. That was 8 or 10 years ago. I'd have followed you anywhere, memorized every bit of your films, man ! Now, you're trapped in the Hollywood prestige. That's a bummer, man! Though, I dig your style, man: the ideas you put in the story, with the help of your bro. The way you shoot. The actors (hail to Heath), the production too. I even like you trying to make this man fighting creeps disguised as a bat as real as possible, even though I don't like that treatment for such a story and I think that a film based upon a comic should feel as a comic. But, fair enough, transposing Batman's mythlogy to today's reality is pretty cool. But, Man, what a waste ! Where's your point ? Where's the point ? Why don't you push your logic to the end of it ? Why so many gaps, holes, ellipses in you're story ? Why so many useless plots ? I mean, I was really keen on seeing a REAL Batman, man, but why do you use real locations like that for instance : everybody who's at least seen Chicago once on a picture should figure that it's not Gotham here, it's Batman in Chicago. Every Londoner should figure that it's not an abandoned warehouse here where Rachel is trapped, but it's Battersea Power Station. Now you could have at least shown a chimney, damn it. And that bit in Hong Kong... lame. Looked like a f***ing Roger Moore's James Bond s**t. And why so paradoxical, incoherent: Batman hanging up the mask and then 5 minutes later he is after the smiling freak again. Did you really think we would eat that kind of script tricks ? Explain that to me, Man ! And I'm afraid, Mister Nolan, that you can't direct action sequences (and can't rip other landmark movies properly either). That score at the beginning, was an insult to such a brilliant movie that is Heat. And this truck flipping over, now, come on, tell me, you had just watch Terminator 3 when it came to your mind, didn't you ? All in all, you f***ed it up, man ! But the Dude abides, he will wait for the next one. Suggest though you do a J before. You know, take it easy, man ! Stop brain wanking a little bit.
a big Joke !First of all, can someone explain me why the camera is spinning like this all the time ? There is no reason to do that. Rollercoasters are fun but it never last 2 h 30. Christian Bale is not that good in this movie, and each times he uses his "batman's voice", it's impossible to take seriously. But why so serious ? Well...a little wouldn't hurt...and it'll never be as funny as the 1966 batman's version. The scarecrow part is not useful, so why bringing him back ? The part with the cell phone's sonar is lame, so lame you could cry... The end makes no point at all, and Bruce Wayne's sacrifice is just pointless. Well, maybe a tiny bit better than "batman begins", and the music is sometimes not annoying, these are the only good points. Ledger's interpretation is OK, but not well served by the rest, and the character of Twoface is too "cartoonesque". The balance is then pretty bad.I don't think there is any possibility in the near future to propose something comparable with "Batman's return", please stop trying !
