Christopeher Nolan is a talented director. With batman begins,he created such a fantastic atmosphere that he brought batman character back in game. With the dark knight, he made not only a great second sequel, but also one of the best movies of the past 10 years. He mixed action, heroism, feeling, literature, colors so well that you feel kind of high when the movie ends. There is no doubt about it. But i see some people who don't mind to compare this movie with some old masterpieces and say the dark knight is the best movie so far.Haha, this is completely unacceptable.Let me clear this: If a movie can bring freshness to creativity, If a movie happens to change your insights, If a movie starts a new genre, gives away new techniques and styles, If a movie makes you understand your heart better; then I call that movie a masterpiece. As far as I see, The Dark Knight is far from it. But I still feel like I have to congratulate Christopher Nolan for making such a good film. Thanks...


                
After reading quite a few reviews from the states i was very curious about this movie. As a kid i loved to read superhero comic books, spiderman and batman were my favourites. Loving the spiderman movies and also liking the first new Batman movie by Nolan and wanting to see the last performance by Heath Ledger i couldn't wait to see this movie.Man was i disappointed.Don't get me wrong, i liked the movie, i had fun with it and the performance bij Heath Ledger is something i will never forget. I was sceptical about him because people tend to exaggerate performances of popular dead actors but i must honestly admit, he blew me away. He also blew every actor away he shared screen time with, i liked gary oldman best together with him in a scene. I am still wowed by Hedgers performance, and i must admit i really feel frustrated that he is gone, this performance MUST get an Oscar.Caine was very good, Bale was OK although i don't like him as batman, he is a good Bruce Wayne but not a good batman and i really enjoyed Aaron Eckart as Harvey Dent.But i thought the movie also had quite a few flaws.Without giving away too much i really though most of the combat action scenes were not easily watchable because they were to fast to follow, I really didn't like the way they went with two face, and the ending sequence with the bat and the joker to me was a let down. Also i don't like the way Nolan tells the story but i must admit, thats a personal opinion.There were 2 surprising moments that i really loved, one containing a pencil which got me laughing very hard and the other the choice sequence which ended in a way i didn't see coming but loved it.All in all, an OK superhero movie, 7 stars but 9? come on people, that's crazy.It's unbelievable that movies like the matrix 1 , gladiator, as good as it gets, l.a. confidential, eternal sunshine and the spotless mind don't rank as high as this movie, i cant understand it although i respect it.Happy to share my feel about this movie,Realkane


                
I really wanted to see this in the theater;however, I never did last summer. Instead I waited till it came on cable, and after watching it; I really didn't miss anything by not going to the theater. I was rather disappointed because I was expecting this to be as good as Spiderman, but I don't think it was. I thought it was rather slow moving with sparse action scenes. I mean Batman on the chopper really wasn't that much action. A lot of films have had better car chasing scenes then that.And I really didn't think Heath Ledger was anything special in this. His role was just a lot of hype. Probably the best role was by Aaron Eckhart and the special effects with his face at the end.I also have to comment on Christian Bale's Batman voice. What was he trying to do?? He sounded like a chronic smoker with emphysema.FINAL VERDICT: It was good, just not as good as advertised. I don't get why so many people thought it was the best comic book movie to be made.


                
Do you REALLY think this was a better film than the Godfather? The Good, the Bad and the Ugly? The Seven Samurai, Pulp Fiction? OK, the Joker was a stand out performance, and the rest were good, but was this really the best film of all time? Can't see how that happened, and in 30 years this will sink to the middle of the pile where it should be.You want an examination of good and evil and the duality of man? Watch the King of New York. It's a better film than this. I'm not saying it's not worth seeing, but please, this is NOT the best film of all time.....This may be the best Batman film we've seen, but frankly I enjoyed Iron Man more. The action was good, the story reasonable, and there were some good supporting acts, but the whole experience doesn't move you like the Shawshank redemption, it wasn't a seismic shift in film-making like Pulp Fiction or the Godfather. The direction - better than Sergio Leone? The film hasn't been hyped that much, so where is this coming from?


                
"The Dark Knight" is the most anticipated movie of the summer, partly because it's Nolan's follow-up to the fiercely adored "Batman Begins" and partly because it features Heath Ledger's last performance, as the Joker. That makes one good reason to see it. As much as I disliked "Batman Begins," finding myself not just unmoved but bored by its alleged darkness and moral complexity, I concede that it was at least a real movie, with a thought-out structure, a reasonable degree of character development and, most significant, an adherence to visual logic that was at least workmanlike. "The Dark Knight" offers the same degree of murkiness, both visually and thematically, and maybe even a little more. And Nolan gives us enough multilayered subplots to at least fool us into thinking this is a work of intellectual and moral complexity. But as a piece of visual storytelling, from shot to shot, "The Dark Knight" is a mess. Characters disappear from one locale and show up inexplicably in another, thanks to the magic of editing. At one point, we learn two characters have been abducted, but Nolan doesn't bother to show us who did it or how. (Later, he explains the "who did it" with dialogue -- the lazy way.) At the end, a major character is left hanging, literally, as we are figuratively. If this is genius, give me hackery But "The Dark Knight" looks as if it were made from a messy blackboard diagram with lots of circles, heavily underlined phrases ("Duality! Good vs. evil -- in the same person! Kinship between hero and villain!") and crisscrossing arrows that ultimately point to nothing. With "Batman Begins," Nolan assured his audience that he understood that the characters originally created by Bob Kane -- and further developed by the likes of Frank Miller -- were rich, fascinating ones, and they are: It shouldn't be hard to write good stories around them. But what the Nolans have come up with here is just more pretentious poot, dumped onto the screen in a style that pretends to be fresh and energetic but is really only semicoherent. This time, Bale's Batman/Bruce Wayne finds himself involved in a romantic rivalry with the handsome and extremely principled Gotham D.A., Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart), who has taken up with Batman's onetime love, assistant D.A. Rachel Dawes. Katie Holmes, who played Dawes in "Batman Begins," has used her newly found Scientologist shape-shifting capabilities to morph into Maggie Gyllenhaal, and the effect is pleasing: Gyllenhaal's Dawes is a tough cookie in a Stanwyck-style bias-cut gown, and the movie feels smarter and more supple when she's on-screen.Many of the characters from the first movie return here, busying themselves in this or that corner of the plot with little or no consequence: Morgan Freeman is back as the tweedy genius Lucius Fox; Michael Caine, as Alfred, miraculously gives the movie's overserious dialogue some genuine dramatic heft; and Gary Oldman as Lt. Jim Gordon (he's not yet commissioner), so terrific in "Batman Begins," seems lost here -- in one scene, his enunciation was so bad I wondered if he wasn't just trying to underplay the movie's self-important dialogue. (That dialogue includes choice pseudo-topical sound bites like "Some men aren't looking for anything logical, like money. Some men just want to watch the world burn.") Nolan moves his characters around the screen, in jagged diagonals and crazy swoops, in an attempt to explore the dark side of human nature. We get robber-clowns in scary masks, Batman look-alikes committing evil deeds, troupes of urban villains that come in all colors and sizes. A lot of stuff is blown up. The violence is swift and brutal -- including a pretty nasty trick involving a pencil -- although Nolan tastefully (and wisely) cuts away sharply at the crucial moments. There's an assortment of perspective shots that create the illusion we're looking -- or falling -- down from the top of some extremely tall buildings. To encourage thoughtful beard stroking among his audience, Nolan throws in a "Lifeboat"-style (Who should die first? Me or the other guy?) plot device.There's no dramatic arc in "The Dark Knight" -- only a series of speed bumps. The moments in the movie that should be the most dramatic are glanced over so quickly that we barely have time to register what has happened. I'm not sure the actors know what's going on, either. Bale was a tolerable Batman the first time around, even though he ultimately failed to dissolve the distance between us and that mask. Here, he tries to build on that earlier performance. In "The Dark Knight," Batman is misunderstood and mistrusted by the people of Gotham, who see him as a vigilante and not a hero who strives to protect them. Bale is slightly better as Bruce Wayne -- he's such a good actor that he's capable of conveying the deepest anguish in a single, flashing blink. But his Batman, lumbering through the movie in a suit that's supposed to be lighter than previous incarnations, is a flat, dull creature, with no new tricks up his gauntlets: Playing this moody superhero, Bale has run out of shades of gray to work with.Ledger's performance is unsettling and difficult to watch, partly because it's impossible to remove it from the context of his death. But it's a fine performance regardless, and I wish the movie around it were more deserving. "The Dark Knight" may be somebody's idea of a masterpiece, but I doubt it would be Hitchcock's. Nolan may want us to believe in the darkness that lurks within each of us, but instead of leading us to it visually, he chops it up and sets it out in front of us, a grim, predigested banquet. The difference between Nolan and his idol is that Hitchcock demanded that we trust ourselves; Nolan demands that we trust only him.
A good film but not the master piece every one is making it out to be. One word. Hype. Two face is wasted and his existence is only known by Gordon and batman in the end so why bother using (and wasting)his character?, was there any real point in Maggie Gylenhall? The ferry bit went on far too long (probably so they could give ledger more screen time), The batbike/pod thing looked really slow and spent most of its time spinning its wheels and looked like more of an excuse to release a cool toy tie in! and i could go on but you probably all agree but are too blinded by hype and the fact that ledgers dead to see that this is a pretty average film. Why was the scarecrow not arrested at the start of the film? How come the clear reference at the end of batman begins regarding the jokers existence is completely forgotten about in the next movie. I could go on but i'm sure you'll all realise when the hypes died down. In summery, too long, wasted characters, a bit of mis casting and what the f**k was with batmans ultra gruff voice! i nearly choked on my popcorn first time i heard him! Heath ledger is a sad loss however.


                
So this is the movie that created one box-office record after the other. I really expected quite something, but was left disappointed. It's definitely not a bad movie. There are many things that are good entertainment and worth watching and definitely one of the better movies this year, but come on it has so many flaws. If you think that a movie like matrix which is more original, more intelligent, better from its action-sequences and so on and so on just didn't earned that much at the box-office.The most disturbing thing is probably the amount of realism they tried to put in a comic book story. Which always confused me as a viewer. That doesn't work for me. I think there was a hype created in America that pleased the hardcore comic book fans but i think the main reason why it was so extremely successful in America is it's dealing with Americas 9/11 Trauma.The whole movie was kind of a propaganda movie for the government and its actual foreign policy.When you see Batman standing in the ruins of an exploded building together with the firemen it evokes images of 9/11. And America's desperate yearning for a hero. Someone who will clean up with this scum. But what made "it" a scum isn't really told. A super-villain like the joker is just mad in a comic book. But in real life who is mad and who is not is often just a matter of the point of view.The prisoners in the one boat evoke images of Guantanamo. And it justifies their illegal and often unjustified imprisonment of innocents with the words of the people of "other boat" . Why shall we have mercy with them. They blew their chance. But still we give them much more than they deserve. It still was a nice gesture giving them some kind of redemption by letting tiny lister throwing the detonator outside.In the end Batman stand for me as a symbol for "W", because he is blamed by the people even though he is doing it seemingly just for them and sometimes they don't appreciate it or even understand it.Next thing was how often and illogically they let the joker get away. I mean come on. The just cut to another scene and he is free. Thats so cheezy.Batman hits him up like nothing and the man doesn't even bleed a bit. Other real people he just hits once and they are K.O. I thought the Joker had no superpowers but here he seems invincible.Then you wonder how quick he has everything planned without ever getting a touch of an recruited army behind him , even though he seems to have tons and tons of toy soldiers. I a comic book it works but in a movie where they try to put a lot of realism in it it feels weird. First he is in prison but he is so foreseeing everything. Maybe i need to see it again. But it felt weird.The action sequences felt not really thought trough. The whole chase tunnel sequence was so unrealistic. i mean first the police somehow never hits back. And joker just shoots and shoots and shoots. And it felt unreal.Maggie Gyllenhall felt miscast. She maybe a favorite in art-house productions but here you need someone with obviously more sex-appeal. I never bought it that they fell for her.The the totally unrealistic wounds of Harvey dent turning into "two-face". Come on. No one would have such an open wound. Isn't "Two-Face" a mad scicophrenic in the books. Here he never feels mad, just like a guy trying to get his revenge. Thats what I mean, with the amount of realism. Here a mad character from the books is explained in his madness, but the main character the joker which is a synonym for any terrorist threatening America isn't explained a bit. Yeah better that way. One might get scarred that one self turned that man into a terrorist. So they better leave that explanation out.Then the much hyped about heath ledger (r.i.p.) performance. It was good but not that great. For me it was just an update of the Nicholson joker. He even talked much like him and his facial expressions also resembled Nicholson's expressions. So whats all the hype about. He is still performing very good but not legendary. I have seen better villains.Then it seemed like there were many points in the movie that resembled of "L.A. Cofidential" One scene in the end where they let Harvey dent die as a hero is one of them but there were others too which i forgot.So after all. Worth watching. Good movie. But too overrated. And i still don't understand the enormous box-office-records.
Normally I would give this a 7.5 out of 10 but since I cant' I'll give it a seven. How anyone could rate this title that high on IMDb.com is amazing to me. It's mostly fanboys that believe this is the best movie ever and the best thing since sliced bread but what most fanboys fail to notice because they lack objectivity is that while the movie is a good one, it is quite flawed and nowhere near as perfect as many of the fanboys have rated.A couple things I noticed when I watch this movie, the movie goes on way too long. Even my friends agreed and they are huge Batman fans. There are about 3 or 4 points in the movie where it seems like it will end but goes on for another 30 minutes. And while Heath Ledger's performance is top notch and Bale as Bruce Wayne is pulled of quite flawlessly, his Batman persona is a bit weak. The voice is annoying, and many times throughout the movie, he seemingly plays second fiddle.I can't know Eckhart's casting as Two Face but Maggie Gyllenhall just doesn't seem to fit and just seems to be a standalone piece of eye candy.There are many things I can harp about but I'm not here to knock the movie. There are good points, cinematography great, Joker and Two Face played excellently by their counterparts, mood was effective and story flowed quite well albeit a bit too long.BUT this movie doesn't even belong in mention to some of the greats and shame on many movie fans that had this movie rated higher than such classics as The Godfather. Obviously the fanboys bought way too much into the hype.


                
There seems to be a lot of hype about this film. As I write it's sitting at #6 with an average rating of 9.0. Honestly, I don't think it's that good. Heath Ledger is fun as the psychopathic side of the joker, but I'm not sure he's any more enjoyable than Jack Nicholson - where, for instance, are the actual jokes? Michael Caine just is NOT Alfred - butlers should speak much more correctly than that, and the cockney boy just doesn't work for me. Christian Bale doesn't seem solid enough as a Bruce Wayne. It's a bit more jolly than the Tim Burton efforts - there is at least daylight this time - and the plot twists and effects are decent, but I don't think they're particularly ground-breaking. All in all I'd say it's watchable, but I don't expect it to hang around in the top 10 for too long.


                
The Dark Knight is for sure a good movie. It can easily be called the best Batman movie yet, although in my opinion thats not saying much. To be honest, there are just as many things to dislike about this movie as there are to enjoy.Just to summarize the things I liked about this movie: This is the smartest, darkest, complex, involving and violent Batman yet. There is no doubt that a lot of thought went into the plot movie. I really enjoyed how they made the Joker psychologically attack Batman and cause havok around the city. He really seemed like an intellectual villain who had a larger purpose than just killing Batman.My main complaints were that at some times, the movie takes its storyline a bit too far. I honestly thought the whole Two-Face origin was way too pushed. Harvey Dent's story arc seemed way too predictable and quite flat. I didn't really buy his whole transition into a villain. It seemed a little rushed and completely unnecessary and I think the movie could have done much better without the Two-Face side story.Plus I didn't like the whole "Bruce Wayne turning himself in drama". The story of the people turning against the hero has been overdone in the movies. It tries desperately to create some inner character turmoil for Batman, but 15 minutes later he is kicking ass like it never happened. Silly.Don't get me wrong, its a good movie. I just wish all the fans would see the movie for what it is and take their fan goggles off.
Today, its ranking is #1 out of top 250 movies of all times. That is absurd. This movie is great - but by no means best movie ever. It is not a movie that revolutionizes movies as we see them. It is hard for me to imagine why someone would think this movie is better than breakthroughs like The godfather, Pulp fiction, Matrix, etc. I loved the movie - but nothing in the movie was revolutionary. The story line was not extra-ordinary. The gadgets were great but we have seen better. (sweet tires on the bat mobile + bike). Acting was great. By all means worthwhile of watching - but I am actually very disappointed to see it at #1 movie of all times


                
I've never read any Batman comics, I only saw the films and few episodes from the excellent animated series when I was about 10. Batman '89 is still one of my favorite movies (mainly because of emotional reasons), along with Batman Begins which was a very good movie too. I was really hyped about The Dark Knight and like Batman Begins, it is a very, very good movie, though not the best. Let's start with the cons first.CONS Two and a half hours were a bit long for me, they could have done it in 2 hours and it still would have had this same resonance with the audiences IMO. Two unnecessary story lines: Mr. Reese and Hongkong, especially Hongkong. It was a nice little sequence, but not too important.Batman's voice: Too much, I almost laughed.Scarecrow: the character deserved so much more than what he finally got, I hope he'll be back for the third ride. He was a real threat to Batman in the first movie.Rachel: now I believe it was the character itself all along, not Katie Holmes. She simply didn't work, I'm kinda glad she's out.Music: most of the time it was excellent, but it annoyed the hell out of me in some places.PROS Greatly crafted story, full of twists and turns, though I felt a definite anti-climax during the ending sequences. A wanted a bigger showdown between the Batman and the Joker, I guess the writers wanted to save that for another movie.Christian Bale's Batman: apart from his growling voice, very, very good like in Batman Begins, though I think he should have got more screen time.Aaron Eckhart's Harvey/Two-Face: the real steal of the show, he was bloody brilliant. I hope he'll also be back for the third movie as the main baddie, his Two-Face was very threatening.Heath Ledger's Joker: I won't go into details, but I guess the greatest compliment I could give him is that I hated the Joker, I couldn't stand this psychopath.Gary Oldman's Jim Gordon: He was Gary Oldman. Enough said.:) Brilliant and the character was very well written.Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine were superb as well, so the cast was top-notch.SUMMARY So, the film was very good, but not great (only in my opinion!!! Fans, don't shoot me!). The Dark Knight is NOT a comic book movie, perhaps that's the reason I'm not as thrilled about it as other people (which DOESN'T mean the film isn't excellent), for me the concept of Batman doesn't really work in the real world as it worked in Burton's fantastic Gotham. But comparisons with Batman '89 are kinda fruitless, the styles are so different, it's impossible for me to decide which is better. Like the Ledger vs. Nicholson debate. Nicholson's Joker worked perfectly in Burton's version as did Ledger's in Nolan's, the two universes could coexist together perfectly.7 and a half out of 10. I want a third movie right away with Scarecrown and Two-Face (I hope the latter didn't die).:)
From where to start? Maybe, from my disappointment with IMDb and vote engine? Or, just leave that and straight go to the description of this movie? 1. Bad directing...up up up in tension and then totally down with low intelligent denouement2. Bad script, too much talkingt, non stop talking, superheros and villains talking all the time, everything must be explained3. Joker performance is nothing more than little above mediocre. I'm counting this in list, because so much talking in public about awesome performance by ledger...well, maybe, if you didn't watch any film with al pacino...if you just put attention to it you will see legder is trying the best to act like al pacino in talking scenes4. too much slow and heart breaking(yeah) lordoftherings scenes 5. film is next elections campaing, nothing moreAnd film have few good things, to be honest:1. music is great, pumping tension whole film 2. masks are very good,2face mask is perfectShort: this film in top ten alltime movies? bah!


                
To think that this movie belongs in the top 100 movies of all time let alone the top five is ludicrous. You bet, it' quite a spectacle. But spectacle doesn't make a great movie. There's one truly great character and everyone knows it's Heath Ledger's Joker. That was a magical paring of great writing and great acting.But what happened to the rest of the movie? Besides The Joker the film is merely almost good. That is if you like exceedingly dark and depressing movies that have little if anything to feel good about. It's mildly suspenseful at times but much of the action is telegraphed. Let's see some more stupid police who can't see another Joker getaway coming from a mile away.I'm no wimp -- I can be engrossed by and accept wholesale carnage when it's in something like "Saving Private Ryan" -- but this is yet another movie in which it doesn't matter how many faceless civilians and police die just as long as there can be lots of shooting and car crashes and the stars are OK.And what of poor Batman? Christian Bale does a creditable job in the role, yet this is really a movie about The Joker. The hero and who he is isn't nearly as well explored as the villain.Besides Ledger the two old pros, Michael Cain and Morgan Freeman, play the most interesting characters. Gary Oldman does a decent job as James Gordon. The problem is we're never given any reason to doubt him yet there is this undercurrent to the character that maybe he's not really working for the good guys.The scene where Batman hunts The Joker as SWAT teams come crashing into the building is one of the most confusing messes I've seen. There's no clear idea what's happening and why and The Joker's final capture is anticlimactic. The turn to the dark side by character Harvey Dent is poorly developed and in the final scenes, lacking much logic. And the suspension of logic -- especially when it comes to the evil doing of The Joker -- just goes too far.In the end, despite Batman's expected saving of the child, the movie simply peters out with a muddled message and Batman zooming off on his motorcycle in the direction of -- we can only presume -- another sequel.If you want a dark, action-packed film then see "Quantum of Solace." It's not a great film -- not nearly as good as "Casino Royal" -- but it's a fair shot better than "The Black Knight."
...for, simply put, this is to comic book/graphic novel adaptations what The Godfather, Part II is to gangster movies. Relentlessly dark, brooding, tangled, mythic, disturbing, none of that alternating, and then some. Long, too. It is neither uplifting nor a place to park the kids.I devoured my share of comic books when much younger, and felt obliged but not compelled to sample their motion picture adaptations. In particular, no fan of the Batman series am I. Tim Burton aimed for weird and hit the target. Joel Schumacher aimed for Ken Russell and missed oh so wide. Christopher Nolan and company got the keys to the franchise and did something certifiably different. Hat's off for that.In sum...About a half-hour too long, and that final half-hour was action-packed befuddlement capped by not one but two unnecessary speeches that were effectively blotted out by that packed action.Heath Ledger's performance will echo in your mind for some time to come. It had to have echoed in his own. Grant the man rest.So will, or should, the performances of everyone else, most notably Aaron Eckhart and Gary Oldman for their respectively surprising turns of character.With age Eric Roberts looks like Willem Dafoe, and Nestor Carbonell looks unnervingly like Peter Mark Richman.I believe we're close to breaking the sound barrier of digital FX, where you don't appreciate them 'til they're hurled at you and can't appreciate them when you do.I've heard my share of edited gunshots and explosions for the year and quite possibly the next two or three. But at least the violence wasn't stylized. If I wanted that I'd rent A Clockwork Orange.What awards this film will win will be well and truly earned. All the same I can't guess where the franchise will go next. I sincerely hope it's left where it is, with the goal of applying the same considerable attention and resources to finding, learning, articulating and displaying something novel. The participants in this film are surely capable of all of that...


                
For a summer superhero movie, this is a great film to watch; however, in terms of greatest movies of all time, it is in no way number 3. It baffles me how some moviegoers could be so dumb. This is a good movie, but people grossly overrated it.The performances were great especially ledger who in my mind should get an Oscar nomination. - I enjoyed the movies darker grittier feel and I believe Nolan did a good job projecting that feel. - Etc...However, I believe there are no moments in the film that are really that revolutionary in terms of film making. The plot was not difficult to figure out: introduce the Joker, Batman fights the Joker, captures the Joker but OH NO!!! He tricked us, Batman fights the Joker against tremendous odds and of course wins. The basic plot was well presented though by Nolan who I believe has a very very bright future in Film making. This movie is very good but does not deserve the place it was awarded, although I think it can fit into a good spot on the top 250 list. But the lack of genre defining moments limit it to be merely a very good yet generic summer movie. Although I do believe that the Nolan era Batman movies take a giant dump on the previous Batman series which sucked.
It's an unwritten rule that in superhero movies, the sequels rarely to never live up to the standards of the original--how many of us were spellbound by THE MATRIX only to be jilted by its disastrous sequels? THE DARK KNIGHT squashes any presumptions that nothing could ever surpass the original, whose wholesome darkness, originality and excitement made it possible for comic book adaptations/blockbusters to become more than the sum of its genre. Christopher Nolan has outdone himself in every way possible. BATMAN BEGINS was about Bruce Wayne's roots and his journey to becoming Batman. Very interestingly, the emotional arc of THE DARK KNIGHT is not on Batman (though Christian Bale is still solid as both charming Bruce and his darker alter ego), but rather on Harvey Dent's (an excellent Aaron Eckhart) crusade against corruption and how own eventual dark journey that, by either chance or choice, will shape him into a hero or a villain. The love story between Dent and Rachel Dawes, who cannot wait for Bruce anymore, is also what supplies THE DARK KNIGHT with its human heart, and what makes the film's dark turns all the more poignant and suspenseful. Everything about THE DARK KNIGHT is edgier, from the music (the screeching buildup is at times unbearable) to the violence (the Joker's disappearing pencil trick will shock you). A great deal of this is indebted to Heath Ledger. If Ledger hadn't died tragically young last January, the sold-out midnight/3 am/6 am showings probably wouldn't have been as momentous, but the kudos for his performance still would've been higher than the skies. To say that his performance is majestic isn't enough--it transcends Brando and Cagney and de Niro and Malcolm McDowell's astonishing performance as Alex de Large. A film critic for Entertainment Weekly once wrote about Christian Bale in RESCUE DAWN that "I've never seen the actor look more at home with his own taut charisma." That praise has to be passed on to Ledger, who seems so comfortable with his madness it's truly terrifying; When I was in the crowded theater I thought, "this must've been what it was like back in 1955, when REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE came out, just after James Dean died." Ledger will become a cult figure, there is no doubt. This will be his biggest hit, it is inevitable. But once you surrender yourself to his exquisite madness, you're able to forget the fact that Ledger is gone and that the ghost on-screen is the last of what will remain.The only quibble I have about THE DARK KNIGHT is the recasting of the Rachel Dawes character. Katie Holmes got a lot of unfair publicity during BATMAN BEGINS because of the media firestorm around her relationship with Tom Cruise. She even got a Razzie nomination. She is not this generation's answer to Bette Davis, and Maggie Gyllenhaal is actually the better actress of the two. But having already set up this character who is very crucial to Bruce's life, it's awkward to have another actress cast in that role. It's like trying to imagine anyone else but Ingrid Bergman falling in love with Humphrey Bogart during the Paris flashbacks of CASABLANCA. However, the role, already small and somewhat insubstantial, is a more diminished in this film than its predecessor, and it's only a minor annoyance to a practically perfect movie.This is the film we've all been waiting for, and it's the film we deserve. I hope you all take in the unforgettably exciting atmosphere of the crowded theater, and remember the greatness of Heath Ledger that is lost, but with this film, it'll never be forgotten.


                
This Batman installment isn't a bad one it's just been completely overrated since the passing of Heath Ledger. Secondly there was way too much material to be packed into the three hours alloted. If anyone knows anything about the back story of Harvey Dent/Two Face they are just left feeling empty and the character itself unjustified. I understand Nolan was trying to do something different with the Joker, but why disrespect Two Face? Also, there was really no Batman/Bruce Wayne complex which I enjoy and feel is important to every Batman film. Overall a good action film, but will not be adding to my Batman movie collection. Hopefully Nolan brings back Two Face in the next film and gives him a face.


                
So Dean and I headed to Forest Hill Weds night to watch "The Dark Knight". Here's my controversial review.I'd been waiting to see this for a while, mostly because of how good "Batman Begins" was but also because of the rave reviews of Heath Ledger's performance, apparently his best since "10 Things I Hate About You". Went in expecting a truly classic cinematic performance...and i gotta say i was disappointed.The film starts out with a gripping bank robbery, done by some blokes in Joker masks. I got all excited when i saw William Fichtner as the bank manager who looked like he was going to foil the robbery, but alas his impact was minimal and he was soon dead. After his performance in "Go", he shouldn't be taking crummy roles like that. Anyway we're soon shown the power and craziness of the Joker and his desire to be Gotham's master criminal. Yep, the Joker is chilling but in what will be an unpopular opinion, I reckon you could have put Screech from "Saved By The Bell" in that make up, with those lines, and be about 80% as terrified. We're then introduced to Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart, in his best role since "Double Jeopardy") , the District Attorney with no fear and free from any ounce of corruption and Gordon (Gary Oldman, in his finest role since "Air Force One"), the squeaky clean cop who is hell-bent on bringing down the city's crime. The Joker realises he must take down Dent,Gordon, as well as Batman to take the city over and hatches a brilliant plan to do so. Will he succeed? See it to find out.Now it was an OK movie, but way way over-hyped eg it's listed as No.3 on IMDb.com's all time best movie list. That puts it ahead of some pretty well known and respected movies ie Pulp Fiction, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, Casablanca, Psycho and Taxi Driver just to name a few. I thought it was a decent script, with an excellent cast, but the film just got to clever for itself at times, or at least for a Batman movie. Having said that I missed one or two key moments of the movie, probably due to agitation more than anything else ie that Gordon was driving the van with Dent in the back. I just thought it was weird that the driver wasn't talking and must have been a baddie. It was way too long, at least by 30mins and didn't have enough Bruce Wayne time.Solid, but I still prefer Batman Begins. Some will love it, some may think it was a tad overdone.FInally, ledger's performance was good but let's not get carried away and put it up with DeNiro as Travis Bickle, Al Pacino as "Scarface", Anthony Hopkins as "Hannibal" or Keanu Reeves as "Johnny Utah".
Having had to wait for 2 weeks before I had a chance to watch The Dark Knight, I was thrilled when the time came. After the first week of IMDb votes I kinda guessed there was some hype going on. But after 200.000 votes the grade was still 9.4. Was this still a hype or was the movie genuinely good? Also reading very positive movie reviews and hearing people go on and on about how great Heath was as the Joker, this meant the movie just had to be great, right? Well it's NOT. It's a good movie, but people who compare it to history's best cinematic productions are just out of their mind.Let me get to the first point of the hype: the Joker. I read reviews of this character being the most evil, terrifying, psychotic and creepy villain they had ever seen. I must agree that Heath does a great job of playing the Joker. But this just isn't living up to what I read and heard. The biggest problem with the Joker is that this is still an action hero movie, not a thriller or horror for that matter. What the Joker does made me laugh most of the time. I mean his opening with jamming the pencil through a guys eye may sound creepy when you hear or read it, but in this movie it's just hysterical. The Joker isn't scary or creepy at any point. He is psychotic, he is unpredictable and he is played with great depth (for a character that is flat in the script). But he can never compete with the great villains like Hannibal Lecter or even Jigsaw. Those are just out of his league. I would love to have seen the Joker develop more. The screen time for Heath is just way too low for him to carry this movie (although lot's of critics claim he already caries the movie, which would be a sad conclusion if you ask me). It's a shame Heath died.With that hype out of the way, the rest of the movie is pretty plain. It has great special effects and make-up, for which it'll surely compete for awards. But the other actors really can't deliver, even great ones like Freeman. Characters are not developed. Which brings the viewer in an awkward situation when we have to feel the pain that both Dent and Wayne feel when the lose Rachel, but we just can't feel that pain. That's just a result of poor script and poor character development.Good film, entertaining, but surely not great or superb. Get real people, look past the hype!
First off, this isn't as good as Batman Begins. The story isn't as tight and the characters aren't as strong within the story. We are lead around rather haphazardly. Sure you could argue that this reflects the Jokers chaos, but the film doesn't particularly characterise him as all that chaotic. For every plan, the Joker has a backup plan, and as he spells out his and Batman's polar relationship, its quite clear that Nolan has chosen to depict the Joker, not as a crazy lunatic, but as a psychopath that has chosen chaos over order. The chaos of the plot simply leads away from the characters, and fills us with unnecessary schlock; the guy revealing Batman's identity (why? and if it was this easy to figure it out, why doesn't everyone know?), Gordon's death (again why? and isn't it plainly obvious that no-one is particularly grieving, and that he hasn't even made Commissioner yet?), the mobile phone sonar (pointless, included to keep Morgan Freeman in the movie, show off that they can think of gadgets, and include some special effects, get rid of it and have Batman figure out who is a hostage the old fashioned way), and so on. Nolan should have chosen to extend other scenes, focusing on enriching the main characters, such as Joker's taunting of the detective in the MCU before his escape.For all this, the film is enjoyable, and you don't feel the length. The action scenes are as exciting as you would expect and don't fail to deliver. Ledger's performance as the Joker is good, in my opinion only lacking in the characterisation provided by the plot. His movements are natural while remaining corrupt and psychotic. He could have been more menacing, or even aloof, the only real depiction of which comes in after he blows up the hospital in his dance away.This isn't Nolan's masterpiece but maybe next time!
Let's get it out of the way first: Heath Ledger was fantastic. A terrific performance, but that didn't make this "the best movie ever" for me. I found Dark Knight over long and dull at times. Maggie Gyllenhaal is adorable, but she is not the "great beauty" that the role should be. Katy Holmes would have been more plausible. Why does Batman have this strange gravelly voice? I couldn't really get to grips with that. Two-face has perfect enunciation even though half his face is missing - what's that all about. It was a fun movie, but nothing fantastic. My 13 year old daughter LOVED it, but not her 43 year old mum!
Is it finally over? Did the movie finally end? This movie proves the following: NEVER make a movie with comic book characters that is longer than two hours. Even most Shakespearean plays aren't that long. NEVER make a movie that is somber, morose and convoluted. NEVER have the good guy act like a bad guy (here Batman is just as nasty as the guys he's going after). NEVER have the leading lady play a support role. NEVER have lead actors play support roles unless they are no longer leading actors (superstars Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman are in support roles). NEVER have Batman without Robin. Christian Bale is no Michael Keaton and Gary Oldman is no Neil Hamilton. This movie needed ... cried out for ... Batwoman (remember Julie Newmar?) ... and Frank Gorshin, Burgess Meredith and Cesar Romero, and, yes, even Burt Ward and Adam West. This pretentious movie is not bad but it certainly is not great. The one bright spot in this otherwise somber production is the performance by the late Heath Ledger. His performance as the Joker almost carries this otherwise lackluster version of the Batman story. Batman is a hero and to portray him as being anything else does not work. Dark Knight is the Doctor Zhivago of Batman movies - long, pretentious, drawn out, somber, and above all, dull.A few words about Heath Ledger. Mr. Ledger was a great actor and proved it in Dark Knight. Despite the movie's flaws, his performance is practically flawless as he brings a unique interpretation of a sinister and complex character to the screen. Whenever Mr. Ledger was in a scene, the movie improved and became interesting. Mr. Ledger gave a great performance for which he deserves a BRAVO!Also, during the filming of Dark Knight, one of the stunt men, Conway Wickcliffe also passed away. Although not a movie star, the loss of Mr. Wickcliffe should be duly noted. From the extra in the crowd to the featured star, every member of the cast and crew play a critical role in bringing a story to the screen ... or the stage. The amount of planning and work involved in producing a movie or staging a play is almost indescribable and without the efforts of EVERY member of the cast and crew, the entertainment brought to public in the movie houses and theaters would not be possible.This movie reportedly is a box office smash hit, but when viewed today the theater was practically empty and after watching this movie, now I know why. After all, if you want to take a nap why pay good money to fall asleep while watching the Dark Knight?


                
I'm going to make this short, since all the praise has been heaped and the naysayers have also had their say. 'The Dark Knight' was fun, but good lord, folks...#1 of all time? Better than 'The Godfather?' More amazing than 'Star Wars'? Gimme a break.Heath Ledger earns his props. A wonderful interpretation. But really, if the poor guy hadn't died would his performance be arousing all this adulation? Batman, Two-Face...great fun, but right out of the comics, both emotionally and believably. As it should be. I didn't mind that poor Harvey is laying in bed with half his face burned off and is otherwise okay; it's a comic book. But I imagine that Bale & Eckhart are kinda scratching their heads over this one...they've both been better in more emotionally resonant movies.A bit long, a bit obvious (the creepy, white 'everyman' and the noble black criminal in the final act). A great time at the movies, yes, but this isn't 'Sunset Boulevard', it isn't "the Godfather, I or II. It isn't even the best superhero movie...I'd have to give that one to 'X-Men II' or 'Spidey II'. It isn't even the best Christopher Nolan film; 'The Prestige' gets better with every viewing; I don't know if the three hour 'Batman' is going rate a second look.Widen your horizons...rent a few of the 'Top 250' that you haven't seen, especially the vintage ones, and see if there's something more to cinema than you expect.


                
Somebody please tell me why does Christian Bale talks like hes taking a dump when hes batman.... i spent the whole movie waiting for the sigh of relief..The writers were very unimaginative when it came to the jokers made up stories of how he got his scars.. Hes meant to be a Psychotic super villain...the jokers magic trick at the beginning was the highlight totally awesome but thats about it.. more things like that where needed in this movie. ledgers performance was OK he has a great laugh that suits the joker to a t.. but i wouldn't say best performance ever..and only think its getting so much hype because he passed awaybut the most ridiculous thing about this movie is the special effects on 2 faces face hahaha.. it looks so fake and i thought they were trying to make a realistic type of batman movie who ever designed Batman's motor bike needs to be fired out of a cannon i did love how the movie was filmed very dark like it should beit was OK just not awesome like everyone makes out


                
