I have just come out of the "Dark Curtain" Screening for The Dark Knight in Adelaide, and I'm blown away.Nolan's directing is sublime, the pacing of the movie was so well kept, managing to keep the audience enthralled in an almost 3 hour movie. There were several shots in the film that had me saying "Now how in the hell did they do that?!", Brilliant scores by James Newton Howard and Hans Zimmer. Every actor shines, no one person steals the film. I don't want to say much about it, because whatever is said cannot do it justice, there is enough hype surrounding it's release, but it's there for a reason. Top Notch film. Bravo to Nolan and his crew for giving a movie that Batman truly deserves.9/10.
This was the most hyped movie of the year and probably one of the most hyped movies ever. Even with the overhype I had to see Heath Ledger play the joker because the trailers looked awesome. So I finally paid my ticket and watched the movie.The movie starts off really strong, the opening scene was an absolute blast (literally). From that point on though I didn't feel the same action. The rest of the movie just seemed, drawn out and completely over the top. Honestly where did the joker find a rocket launcher in Gotham City? This movie was just too long and much of the dialogue was something that a kid writes in senior creative writing and thinks it's brilliant. Also the director did an excellent job of warping the joker from one place to the next, the joker must have had a helicopter or a really loyal taxi driver. One second he's here and the next he's on top of that building. Probably the last straw was when Morgan Freeman showed up. He turns around and the camera is at a low angle as if to show the arrival of Morgan Freeman the ultimate modern narrator who is now in every movie, an older version of Samuel L Jackson who is soft spoken. They kind of made up for it when Debo from Friday showed up as the scary convict on the boat.After sitting in my seat for two and half hours as characters appeared and disappeared the movie finally ended, and it ended in a very cliché way. Way to say the title of the movie as the last word in the film, thats never been done ever?and The Dark Knight had to include the bain of every modern movie, being able to track people's cell phone calls. This little gimmick is in way too many movie these days.so ya I sat there for two and a half house and my butt really hurt, I wasted ten dollars on a cool movie, but one that wasn't as good as people claimed. Maybe next time Christian Bale will take some cough drops before showing up on set.
** PLOT SPOILERS EVERYWHERE ** Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" is one of the better films in the history of its genre, however, it does not qualify as a masterpiece. In fact, it's quite far from such a distinction. It falls short of unquestionable excellence because of a ridiculously high number of plot holes, most of which regard The Joker and his criminal exploits.It is a given that Heath Ledger's portrayal of The Joker leaves us with a character who is thoughtful, unpredictable, ruthless, unrelenting, and arguably insane. That is to say, some inconsistencies in the villain should be accepted, if not embraced. But others, to be frank, are unacceptable because of their stupidity. For example: In the film's opening sequence, a clever bank heist spearheaded by The Joker, the crazed clown kills off his partners as the caper progresses. At the time, it made sense. Pretty simple, the more colleagues he kills off, the more money that leaves for him. But later on in the film, The Joker burns his half of the criminal underworld's combined fortune. He makes it overtly clear that he is not motivated by money. Not in the least bit.So why was the money a factor in the opening scene? It shouldn't have been. Uneven scripting there.But that's nitpicking in comparison to the film's greater faults. The ultimate reason why "The Dark Knight" falls short of the masterpiece label is because there is absolutely no way, under any circumstances, at any time, on any planet or in any solar system, that The Joker could execute so many complex plans in such a short period of time.OK, here is where people start saying: "But it's a movie! It doesn't have to be possible." I know, thanks. I agree, it doesn't have to be possible. But, and this is a huge BUT, a film as ambitious and lengthy as "The Dark Knight" wants to be taken seriously. Not only does it want to be taken seriously, I think director Christopher Nolan wants Oscar consideration for the work he has put in here, and cast members have been saying regularly that they don't want this to be considered as a mere "superhero movie," or "action movie." Well if you want to elevate to the level of serious drama, then you have to explain a few things to me.(1) How does The Joker continue to find willing participants in his escapades when all of his previous crew members end up dead or in jail? The guys he's finding to work for him have to be true idiots. Totally brainless. And that doesn't work because The Joker's plans are meticulous and require precise timing and execution. If these goons are dumb enough to work for him, they aren't smart enough to be effective as help. It's a perpetual contradiction throughout the film, particularly the second act.(2) Sure The Joker is swift and tricky, but c'mon, he doesn't exactly look like a normal citizen. If city-wide security has been heightened to a level never before seen, how the hell is this maniac with a painted face and wacky hair not being spotted? Does he have an invisible transportation machine or something? He doesn't have supernatural powers, so he shouldn't have a supernatural aura.(3) When did he have the time to wire the hospital with bombs? Even if one of his goons did it, how did no one in the hospital notice suspicious activity? What about the assassination attempt on the Mayor? The other cops on the firing line didn't notice the most infamous villain in the city standing right next to them? Why? Because he crouched over a little and tried not to make eye contact with them? Please. I could go on for days, too many plot liberties were taken.I'd actually like to discuss the performances a bit. I think the separation between the strongest part and the rest of the cast is the largest ever with an ensemble of this size and magnitude. Meaning, Heath Ledger's performance was far and away the best in this film, better to the point where it bothered me that no one else was in his realm. The scenes where Ledger was off screen lacked the magnetism and intrigue of the ones in which he appeared. Although appeared is probably not the best word, more like dominated. Christian Bale was OK as Batman, but he's almost too stoic for a character with such strong morals and opinions. He's also a little bit stiff when he's in playboy mode as Bruce Wayne. I think his performance in "The Prestige" was more emotional, effective, and polished.Aaron Eckhart was all right as Harvey Dent/Two-Face, but the problem was that the vast majority of the time I was seeing Eckhart on screen, not Dent. The same Eckhart we saw in "Thank You For Smoking." Also, a man with a finely tuned social philosophy, like Dent, would not totally flip his ideology after the loss of a close loved one. Hopefully the angle is that the toxin causing the disfigurement messed more with his brain than we were led on to believe.Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman were believable as always, but of course they are underused as Alfred and Lucius Fox. Gary Oldman probably contributed the second strongest performance in the film as Commissioner Gordon, and Maggie Gyllenhaal (as Rachel Dawes) was a step up from Katie Holmes as far as execution and timing -- but that's not saying much. I really could go on for days about the unacceptable plot liberties, but I'll spare you. All in all, I liked the film because it had some thought-provoking sequences involving moral dilemmas and intriguing societal questions, and in having such "The Dark Knight" succeeded in escaping the "superhero movie" label. But it's not a masterpiece.Plain and simply, it has too many holes.
Whatever else it may be, "The Dark Knight," Christopher Nolan's follow up to his "Batman Begins," the film that resurrected the Batman franchise, is the most ambitious superhero film ever made. It's full of brooding ruminations about the inherent nature of humanity, obviously fueled by the troubled state of a post-9/11 world, and it packs an awful lot of plot into its two-and-a-half-hour running time. However, be cautioned, and don't let its #1 rating at IMDb set up expectations that the film can't possibly meet. I doubt any experienced film goer is truly going to think that this is the best film ever made.The praise heaped on Heath Ledger for his performance as the Joker is well deserved. Indeed, the Joker becomes the focus of this movie, which may not be such a desirable thing, given that this is...you know....a Batman movie. The caped crusader fades into the background in this installment, to the point where you might leave the movie and forget that he was in it. Ditto Maggie Gyllenhaal, who plays the love interest, and who, true to the superhero movie formula, gets practically nothing to do. But Ledger you WILL remember. He creates a fascinating character in the Joker, and it's through him that the movie poses all of its major moral questions. Is it human nature, as the Joker suggests, to devolve into chaos when the illusion of order is taken away; or do humans have an inherent kindness that will cause them to look out for one another even when circumstances seem to call for self preservation? One of the most fascinating things about Ledger's creation is that the Joker has no more motive as a criminal than to pose questions like this. He's not out for money or even power -- he just wants to create anarchy and see what happens.I was not prepared for the other villain the screenplay throws into the mix: Two Face, played well by Aaron Eckhart. The film is too long, and it's this storyline that makes it so. Chrisotpher Nolan and his brother, Jonathan, the co-writers of the film, would have done well to leave this plot line out. By the end of the film, there are too many characters doing too many things independently of one another, so that the film loses focus slightly.The movie looks fantastic though, and the production team does wonders with Chicago (where I live by the way). In fact the look of the film is one of its major selling points, and I was pleased to finally see a superhero film that looks cinematic rather than cartoonish.So...an excellent addition to the superhero genre and a completely entertaining experience....but it's still, after all, a Batman movie, and it's not the best film since "Citizen Kane." Grade: A


                
Writing this review at the tail end of opening weekend, the Dark Knight has broken the record for opening weekend and deservedly so... this film is a step-above the standard summer blockbuster. However, the film also sits atop IMDb's top 250 films of all-time list, a ranking that won't last nearly as long as its box-office rank. Lines have been long to see this film, and many of those who are voting on this opening weekend are die-hards who waited in line and were ready to love this film regardless of what it offered. Of course, the fact that this film stands alone in its genre in terms of writing, cinematography, art design, and plot helps boost its ratings into the stratosphere, but when the non die-hards begin to watch and vote, we'll see this film settle into its rightful place, somewhere in the top 25 of all time. Its one of those few films that is entertaining and accessible enough to please the same people who went out in droves for Spiderman 3, while artistic and smart enough to please the more discerning cinematic audiences. Truly disturbing, the characters were far from cliché, as one would expect from the genre. No character is all-good or all-bad. Ledger's Joker comes close, but earns a touch of sympathy. None of the heroes are flawless, which is a sign of any good film. My single complaint (besides the various hard-to-believe falls Batman survives) is the rating. This film is far-too disturbing to garner a PG13 rating, and deals with the ugliest sides of humanity in a way that should probably be accompanied by a good conversation that can add some perspective... yet another reason why this film is so good.


                
Batman/Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) accords a deal with the lieutenant James Gordon (Gary Oldman), the district attorney named Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart) and his sweetheart-assistant(Maggie Gyllenhaal) for eliminate definitively criminality at Ghotam. However , a mysterious delinquent and psychotic villain named The Joker (Heath Ledger)begins a new wave of criminal rampage and terror. Batman is only helped by his attendant named Alfred(Michael Caine) and his scientific (Morgan Freeman).This is a dynamic, fast- paced and entertaining movie . Full of action , it's complemented by violent images, thriller and breathtaking scenes with overwhelming computer generator special effects. The picture relies in terrific flying sequences , impressive fights, and breathtaking pursuits. The dark story is made believable and the script has more pace to it than former film titled ¨Batman begins (2005)¨ also directed by Christopher Nolan ; booth movies result to be an intense variation on Bob Kane's comic book creation. Our superhero, well incarnated by Christian Bale dons the suit and cape, for that reason he can to be identified with the rest of his life as Batman and he deserves credit for remaining true to character.A well-intentioned and interesting plot by David S. Goyer based on the characters created by Bob Kane, following the events developed in Batman Begins and repeating some actors as Michael Caine, Gary Oldman, Cillian Murphy , among others. Suspenseful musical score by Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard , and colorful, dark cinematography by Wally Pfister. The film takes off to provide some great moments and great fun as Superman swings into action. The picture is perfectly directed by Christopher Nolan who has directed excellent movies as ¨The prestige¨, ¨Insomnia ¨ and ¨Memento¨ and is preparing Batman third part. This live action Batman was one of the highest grossing movie made in that year, as well as, Nolan's most prestigious efforts in that field. Rating : Very good. Better than average.


                
I have the flame suit on. I've already called my lawyers. I've prepared fake passports and bought several different aliases to run by. I have also transferred my funds to a European account. Why so serious? Because, here we go, The Dark Knight is not the epic piece of Godly art that everyone is hyping it to be.*Runs* The Dark Knight is a good piece of work, a decent movie, but does not fall into near-perfection by any means. Despite the amazing performances, writing, and action sequences, the heart and core of the comic book flavor is severely missing. Issues from Batman Begins is carried over and repeated here, even though they aren't as easy to spot. This is much better than Begins, but still fails to totally erase the memory of Burton's vision of Batman. Resembling more The Godfather and Heat rather than a flick like Iron Man or Spider-Man, it's a totally different sort of movie involving superheroes and supervillians. Gotham City STILL doesn't truly look like Gotham City.Starting the movie is a bank robbery unlike any other, setting the tone of the movie instantly. We see the Joker (Heath Ledger) stirring some early trouble with the mob and crime lords. We then see Batman imitators lurking about. Last, but not least, we see Bruce Wayne's ex (Maggie Gyllenhaal) around the arms of another man: Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart). Then running amok throughout the 150+ minutes of The Dark Knight are action sequences, plot twists, several surprises, several close calls, and a whole lot of crime drama. Good vs. Evil is a battle that is horrifically blurred, and human nature surrounding Gotham City is being tested. All the tension is overcoming Bruce Wayne and Batman, and he begins questioning his motives and placement within the city. The writing staff threw in plenty of deep and engaging dialogue amongst all the action we see on-screen. It's a Batman fan's dream come true; or is it? We can start by crediting Heath Ledger for a fine performance as the Joker. But if Ledger deserves an Oscar for his role, so should Nicholson back in 1989, because believe there are many similarities in terms of performance. The Joker here is cynical, merciless, and is bent on anarchy for no reason<U+0097>but so was Joker in 1989. If Ledger wins the Oscar, then Jack himself should be accepting it on his behalf. Christian Bale yet again fails as Batman with his frustrating raspy voice. As Bruce Wayne he nails it, but as Batman he still needs a bit of work. When Batman starts monologing, it's hard not to cringe. The rest of the cast does a good job, most notably Gary Oldman as Lt. Gordon. Let's also not forget Morgan Freedman, Michael Caine, Aaron Eckhart, and Maggie Gyllenhaal.The biggest strength of the Batman universe lies within the balance of Batman and his villains. Almost all of them have some sort of connection with our hero. However, the treatment of villains yet again is disappointing, as we see a few villains limited to mere cameos, and the Joker himself (despite the trailers) does not get as much screen time as you may assume. In the infamous 1989 version, we saw the Joker rise from lowly punk criminal to a serious threat to the entire city. In the Dark Knight, unlike Batman, there is literally no explanation as to why he is the way he is. There is no backstory revealed, nothing that could possibly explain his physical appearance and mental state. Surely he may craft some tales, but why believe a madman's tale as he wields a knife to your lips? Dark Knight's best moments were not the action sequences, but the immense tension and suspense predating the payoff .Rarely could you predict the outcomes of some of the conflicts, and for the most part all the payoffs were grand, sometimes leading to applause. The chases and action-packed moments themselves were also well-crafted and made great use of special effects. Yet with so many problems flying at you at the same time, it's impossible to expect them all to be concluded and wrapped up in the end. Nolan's direction is stunning from time to time, but then he runs out of steam towards the end of the third act, when the movie is almost finished. The ending, albeit unexpected, was a bit underwhelming and quite vague, especially considering the fact that The Dark Knight is 150 minutes long.Bottom Line: The negativity is sprinkled about in this review, but don't let that fool you. The Dark Knight is indeed a great blockbuster flick that will have you forgetting that there's popcorn and soda by your side. From the dazzling performance of the late Heath Ledger to the carefully-constructed action sequences that keep the pace flowing, there is plenty to praise about. That being said, it's still not the best superhero movie of all-time. Batman is a comic book, and the cast of this new franchise must remember this. You can dwell as much realism as you'd like, but the fact remains that this isn't a realistic franchise nor should it ever be treated as such.Gotham City is still missing its gritty, Gothic, dark architecture and style of Burton's films, and needs more emphasis on the villains that are in Batman's world. The villains are the "yang" to the Batman mythology, and Batman himself is the "yin"; you can't have too much of one and not enough of the other. While it isn't Batman and Robin or Fantastic Four (both of them<U+0085>) The Dark Knight still falls short of masterpiece quality simply because of its exchange of comic book style for realistic crime drama. The Dark Knight is a great ride, but not an epic one to Quality Heaven.


                
Christopher Nolan's 'The Dark Knight' is a big and bold production. The great special-effects, sharp editing and affecting score sweep the film into a high-entertainment package. It is a vast improvement on Batman Begins reaching a higher level of storytelling. Although there are self-evident inadequacies in the script this is a breakthrough film. The Dark Knight is a long film, and in this respect it surprisingly fails somewhat to provide enough depth. Instead we do get scenes where the obvious ineptitude of the police enable the plot to continue as it wishes. For example, why is a police officer in the same cell as The Joker when it was entirely unnecessary? It therefore sometimes falls more into a comic book experience conflicting unfortunately with the superior film elements. However,if this can be forgiven (as I have) Nolan has produced a successful cross-over from his somewhat comic book feature of Batman Begins. Heath Ledger is stunning as The Joker providing the emotional context and thrills. The set-pieces are as grand as they are gripping.A minor point, which I could not get away from was a particular moment when Bale is discussing gadgets with Freeman, was this just me or did anyone else feel like we were watching a James Bond and Q moment?The Dark Knight is a breakthrough film it is more majestic and gripping than any of its Batman predecessors. It is a superior film of entertainment only hampered by its over long-running time but ultimately it is a triumph.
First I'll say, if you're one for the story and the 'why' of a character, in this movie, you will be disappointed. It was not the directors goal to explain everything about every character, and wanted to show the story instead. I feel that the story went along nicely. Most movies, I look at my watch, I'm not a movie person, this movie did NOT feel like 2 1/2 hours at all. I feel that Aaron Eckharts transformation from Harvey Dent to Two Face sucked. He didn't play Two Face up good enough... they had developed him as too much of a good guy, and didn't seem able to throw himself into the 'bad' Two face role. He needed to be more tormented when talking... more dramatic. He fell short as Two Face IMO. Ledgers Joker was perfect. He lost himself in that role. Sometimes when watching, you can see an actor through the part.. and that was not the case here. All you saw was Joker... crazy, funny, quirky Joker. Oscar worthy? maybe.
The Dark Knight. Spectacular , stunning and amazing. Absolutely staggering, a film that is not going to be forgotten. One that actually shows a story as it was meant to be shown, and one of the most darkest, cruelest, and violent action-packed films ever created. With great dialogues in between the equally great scenes, taking the film to another level of greatness. The special effects were all done in a simple, non shabby way, the soundtracks were simply harmonizing with the picture, and the Gotham we knew is now gone, this is a darker and more corrupt place than in any of the previous films.Moving on to the acting. Starting off with the Dark Knight. Bale's performance was outstanding, no-one else has ever been as superb a Batman as he is. Him being split between righteousness and insanity, between what is right and what is wrong. An entirely different Batman, and Bruce Wayne, surpassing any of his other predecessors. Whilst those were more flat, two sided characters, the Bruce Wayne we face in The Dark Knight, is a totally different story.Two key people in the film were also Det. Lt. James Gordon, who was played by Gary Oldman, and Aaron Eckhart as Harvey Dent. They both gave a good, very believable performance. Same would go to the two characters in the supporting roles, Alfred and Luscious fox, being cast by Micheal Caine and Morgan Freeman. Whilst these all gave a good quality from themselves, I was not at all impressed by Maggie Gyllenhaal who played Rachel Daws. Whether these characters were played well or not, people just could not concentrate on them too much, and that is only because of the fact that Heath Ledger, as the Joker, simply dominated every scene he was in, he was the highlight of the whole film. This is no ordinary Joker we were used to, Ledger portrayed the Joker as someone with hate running through his veins, someone that killed for pleasure and someone who had felt a great loss in his past. A darker, sicker, and more evil Joker than any of the other ones in the previous films. Insane, corrupt and terrifying, with a laugh of a psychotic maniac. A perfect villain for the Dark Knight, one that truly completed, and challenged him through the whole story. Hats down for Heath Ledger. Now, not to give all the compliments for the fantastic job to the actors. I also have to compliment the Nolan brothers for an obviously marvellous screenplay and great directing. Not to forget for a large stack of brilliant dialogues. They make films immortal, in a way that they are never forgotten. It makes the difference between a quality film and a masterpiece. The Dark Knight is a masterpiece, amazing performances by the actors, with special mention on Ledger as the Joker. Bone-chilling scenes combined with action and drama, in Gotham that looks flawless, a huge city covered with darkness and insanity. The Dark Knight is a must see film.


                
The Dark Knight in my opinion was a little disappointing. This was not caused by so much of the quality of the movie but by all the hype that critics and other viewers created. It is obvious Heath Ledger is the star of the movie whether he is considered the lead or supporting actor, but he does play an outstanding role. The only problem with Ledger and the movie is that it is over shadowed by Ledger's death. Only since Ledger's death did this movie become so anticipated and it is the only reason why it is getting so much credibility. Many viewers also have over looked Christian Bale who also played a well role as Batman/Bruce Wayne.The movie also has many flaws, Aaron Eckhart's little flip of the coin to decide someone's fate is taken from No Country For Old Men. Then, some how, the Joker can find 1,000 tanks of oil and put it under a hospital or two boats without anybody noticing it even though the police were searching the entire city for traps and explosives. The excuse most people would use is that its comic book movie, but the rest of the movie wasn't. So your telling me the director can make two scenes of the movie a comic book movie so that it can unrealistic.Also, what happens to the Joker? Sure you can say he was arrested, but then you have to think he was already arrested once in this movie and escaped so how do you know that he can't do it again. Then in my mind the worst part was the length of the film. The film did not have to be longer then 2 hours, and if you were to add extra scenes it shouldn't be action scenes, it should be about the Joker's past because in Batman Begins the movie touches on Bruce Wayne's past in such detail that it creates a story which this movie should have done with the Joker.Overall this movie was good and Ledger can be considered for an Oscar Nomination, but i hope the next installment to the series will not be so hyped up so that viewers will not be disappointed.
I personally feel that the Dark Knight is a overrated film. It is not one of the top 10, or top 100 movies every made.It is a good movie that I recommend seeing and it is by far the best super hero movie to be released. But to call it one of the best and put it along side with movies such as Schindler's List and the Godfather is giving it to much praise. I know I am going to get a huge negative response for this comment due to the fact that everyone loves this movie so much but I personally don't think it is a flawless movie like everyone makes it out to be. It is good the acting is good the special effects are good,but the hype for this movie didn't reach a crazy level till Heath Ledger passed then right before release everyone started throwing a fit over this movie. Give it a watch and treat it as it deserves to be.


                
The only 2 reasons I give this film a 7 is: 1) Heath Ledger's fantastic performance, truly deserving all the Oscar buzz he's getting. And 2) Aaron Echhart as Harvey Dent/Two-Face. Despite those two excellent performances the movie is surprisingly... average.Now how can I say that after it's become the number 2 movie of all time and is one of the highest rated movies on IMDb??? Easily. It was too long and convoluted (and boring). Every time Heath Ledger was off screen I found myself eyeballin' my watch... something I didn't do with Batman Begins (a better film), until - to my surprise - Harvey Dent became Two-Face (I thought they were gonna save him as villain for the next film). When I first saw the trailer to this film I thought two things: Heath Ledger looks cool and the action scenes look dull (Which is why I waited so long to see it in theaters). Now, maybe I'm wrong, but for me, what is essentially an action movie should have exciting action sequences. I couldn't count one. I didn't come to see a Batman movie for a moody drama with a couple of good villain performances... I came for an exciting film. This was not an exciting film.... In Batman Begins Christian Bale gave us the most interesting Bruce Wayne/Batman ever... in this he registers zero.... I could go on forever but this movie is so AVERAGE that it's not worth the time (I'll save longer reviews for truly great films or truly awful films).
Actually, first of all, I can't compare Batman Begins with the Dark Knight. They have different plot. Begins shows the introduction of Batman, the origin of Batman. The Dark Knight has a more darker plus interesting plot. It is commendable. Plus bigger action pieces, the movie goes in deep with humans' feelings. It is quite good and I understand it receives a lot of positive reviews. Christopher Nolan did a good job in everything in the movie, making the story deep and dark but engrossing.The story: The Joker is trying to destroy Gotham and wants to kill Batman at first. With his trick plans, nobody even Batman can find him or predict his next move. Batman must stop the Joker from further destruction of Gotham. From there, humans' emotions slowly rise. There are some big action pieces, plot that you want to know and electronic music. I am somewhat disappointed with Two-face aka Harvey Dent, considered the white knight. I wished that Two-face will be given a bigger role. Other from that, it is hard to see any faults with the movie. Acting is good, Heath ledger makes a good joker.Overall: It is good to watch this in cinema. The runtime although long seems to pass quickly. You won't be disappointed. The first scene features bank robbing to hype the audience. It, not only shows you that it has the big action, shows the bad and good of a human which is one of the thing in the movie.


                
Now don't get me wrong, I did like this movie. but really? Why does everyone think this is the most amazing superhero movie of all time? the movie dragged on for far too long and really wasn't as entertaining as movies like Spider-Man 2, Iron Man, or even the Tim Burton Batman films. In my mind, this movie doesn't hold a candle to those movies. the general plot was boring and way too serious, Bale's acting was horrible (He was much better in Batman Begins), and there was way too much dialogue. On the other hand, Ledger was amazing as the Joker, and the overall acting from the rest of the cast was good (With the exception of Bale and Aaron Eckhart. they were pretty bad in this one.) The action was great, although, at some points in the movie, I felt like I've seen it all before. over all, the movie was good, and I would've even considered it a classic at one point. but the overall hype of this movie seems to extinguish that notion from my mind. as I said before, it's a good movie, but not as amazing as people put it out to be.


                
1. This movie at least attempted to be more than just a glorified cartoon -- by focusing on some exquisite moral choices/dilemmas, beauty/ugliness, loyalty/betrayal, etc. That is its main strength, IMO.2. This movie -- as others have pointed out already -- has SO MANY plot inconsistencies/totally unrealistic sequences (even for a fantasy flick), it falls BELOW cartoon-like in that regard. That is its main -- and most annoying -- weakness.As far as the acting goes -- the Joker clearly stole the show. But the problems weren't really with the acting -- they were with the totally unrealistic way the plot evolved. Way too many subplots; not enough glue holding the whole thing together.You have to give the director credit for trying to create something of epic proportions, but you also have to hold him accountable for failing to deliver on that potential.
This movie was very well done, but does not compare with most of the movies in the top fifty. Hype has built up this movie, coupled with the over-played fact that Heath Ledger overdosed on medication. While Heath Ledger made the character interesting, his acting does not compare with TRULY emotionally impacting roles. Compare his acting with Jack Nicholson in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". While Heath Ledger's portrayal was effective, the SCRIPT and the director made the movie truly effective. Also, this movie did not possess the intelligence of other Christopher Nolan movies. In my opinion, the best part of Christopher Nolan's movies has always been his manipulation of time. This is the first of his movies that did not make use of this. Movies like Memento and the Prestige made use of time to create a sophisticated twists and turns. These movies did not reach the rating given "The Dark Knight" due partly because their sophistication caused them to lose widespread popularity, and also because they were not hyped as large summer blockbusters. The widespread popularity of this movie, as well as undeserved hype, will eventually calm, and this movie will be pushed out of the top fifty.


                
Sometimes the films which long often open up to lots of movie mistakes which are talked about for years to come. The big difference here is, yes, there are some movie mistakes as with everything. But, the film has so much happening all of the time these mistakes can barely get noticed when watching the movie. The only time that they are recognisable is when they are clearly pointed out and you deliberately search for them yourself. The script was one which was well written and good enough to keep the attention to what they are saying throughout the whole of the film, from start until the end. I do believe though there could have been so much more development with some of the characters in this film though. Mainly Harvey Dent. Even though he popped up multiple time I definitely believe that he could have done so much with the character but didn't.


                
I have never been a big fan of Batman. I went to see Batman Begins when it first came out and haven't seen it a second time.I saw The Dark Knight, and I thought it was a very good movie. Because I don't know a lot about Batman, a few points were a little hard to follow. Overall, though, you wouldn't have to see the first movie in order to understand, or really have seen the cartoons or read the comics, either.As others have stated already, Heath Ledger's performance was incredible. He's portrayal of The Joker was extremely creepy and psychotic, adding humor to his morbidity. The plot kept me guessing and wondering how it would end.This movie was very enjoyable and I will probably see it again.


                
One of the things I love about IMDb is the honest and frank nature of the reviews; however, I just cannot sit back and allow The Dark Night to be the highest ranked film of all time on this bastion of neutrality and reliability.The Dark Night has eclipsed the all time great films; the greats on this site that were ranked by true die hard film fanatics. Now, we have every Tom, Dick and Harry (or Thelma, Debbie and Hennrietta) judging films. Sadly, they are probably no older than your average teenage porn flick. This is not to say they are not intelligent or tasteful, quite the contrary. I am sure most of the quarter million voters for The Dark Night are great folks; however, I suspect most just plug in a '10' because they enjoyed the film. I mean seriously, look at WALL-E, can you look me in the face and honestly tell me that not only is it one of the top ten films of all time, but also better than Toy Story, or even possibly the best follow-up movie--besides Godfather II--Toy Story II. I hope not. For all true film fanatics I know this is not the case.So, I think, with The Dark Knight, we have witnessed the end of a truly great and wonderful era, when IMDb was a true, real and honest reflection of the best and worst in film. Now, sadly, it has become a McDonaldized landscape of McBig films that do not deserve anything better than being a meal for for a massive hang over.All of this is not to say The Dark Night was not a good film; however, let us all be honest with ourselves. It lingered, it moved chaotically through its narrative and worst, it was stable, level in its cinematic impact. The best films yank and pull you through. Twist and gouge, make you run the gauntlet of emotions...The Dark Night did not do this. So, again, lets be honest with ourselves. Is this film really on the same par as The Shawshank Redemption, The Godfather, The Departed, The Return of the King, Gladiator, Braveheart or a handful of other films that ripped and shredded us throughout the film going experience? Did you really feel that you were 'moved' by this film? Do you really think it deserves the highest honour on this site? Or do you think, perhaps, we are seeing a gross over-rating? In the end, it is the film lover, the cinematic junkie, who will decide the epic nature of this film. Sadly, though I wished it would have fulfilled its promise, The Dark Night is not an epic film, just a very good one.


                
Finally the wait is over. Quite obviously, 'The Dark Knight' is THE most waited film of Summer 2008. It is indeed an exciting action film but, in addition, it does delve deeper than the common action movies. What really makes 'The Dark Knight' stand out is the writing (especially the dialogues which are clever, amusing and thought-provoking), performances and of course, it is the skilled Christopher Nolan's direction that puts it all together, telling an exciting story. It's got substance and the themes are well presented. This time Batman's character is a lot more complex as he's faced with contradicting situations of which he has to make a choices. The character is a good 'continuation' from the prequel (where he's just started with the new identity whereas now he faces the disadvantages and complexities of being Batman).While the writers deserve all the praise for brilliantly defining the characters, it is the actor's job to bring them to life and credit goes to Nolan for retaining most of the better actors of 'Batman Begins' (namely Bale, Freeman and the one and only Caine) and the new cast includes a host of great names like Eckhart, Gyllenhaal, Oldman and of course Ledger. Christian Bale excellently carries off Wayne/Batman. In my opinion, his Batman is much more convincing and intriguing than what Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney offered. Maggie Gyllenhaal is obviously a tremendous improvement over Katie Holmes (the worst thing in 'Batman Begins'). She maintains a great chemistry with Bale and Eckhart and is far from the typical damsel in distress. Aaron Eckhart is totally awesome and Gary Oldman, Eric Roberts and Michael Caine (always dependable) hold their own and do nothing short of a great job. A barely recognizable Heath Ledger delivers a memorable last performance. He reminded me of the late Brandon Lee in 'The Crow'. His Joker is menacing, wickedly funny, insane and cunning. I especially liked that he always said that he didn't plan anything (when this was clearly a lie).The energy-filled action scenes are plentiful and well executed. The dramatic sequences are well balanced and convincing. The cinematography and sound effects are very effective and the score works fantastically.The only downers for me were that the pace wasn't steady as it gets slightly slow towards the end. Bale's Batman voice was overdone. I can understand that the voice needed to sound different from Bruce Wayne's but this one sounded too awkward and too artificial. I would have liked to see how Rachel's death affected Batman. Nolan demonstrates well how it influences Harvey but not much of how Batman dealt with it (especially since it was the consequence of a choice he made). Yet, overall, it is a very well executed film that is darkly entertaining and exciting. I can understand why so many love it.
Let's get this out of the way right off the top: Heath Ledger is nothing short of amazing in this film. ** Heath Ledger's Joker makes Jack Nicholson's Joker look like Cesar Romero's Joker. ** Less cartoony and far more menacing, this Joker actually feels dangerous. Every moment he's on screen your eyes are simply glued there, just soaking in this iconic performance. His look, his mannerisms, his voice... they all come together to make the perfect Joker, and probably the best villain ever seen on screen in a superhero movie... or any movie, for that matter. It's really quite a shame Ledger passed away, as I would love to have seen him portray that character again and again. Does the rest of the movie match this level of excellence? Well, not entirely... It's got plenty of action, just enough humor, and a good script for the most part, but there are a couple minor things that bothered me slightly: If they have to recast Rachel Dawes, fine, but Maggie Gyllenhal is a big step down; Bale's gruff "Batman" voice still sounds a little over-the-top and almost humorous at times; and the movie takes a few unnecessary turns, especially towards the end. Much off this is due to the involvement of "Two-Face." This film didn't need a second villain. His time on screen does nothing but make the audience wish they'd hurry up and get back to the REAL villain. I've never cared for the character, and I suppose it's good they didn't wait to try to use him as the sole foe in a future film, but he simply didn't do anything for me. Aside from those aspects, however, it's difficult to find much to criticize in this movie. I struggled greatly with the rating for this one, as without The Joker, the rest would only have made for another above-average film like Batman Begins. But Ledger's Joker is undeniably the star of this show, and based on that performance alone, I spot it the higher rating. Forget The Dark Knight - they should just call this The Joker. Ledger simply OWNS this film.


                
"The Dark Knight" is a movie that honors its title. Dark, twisted and complex, Christopher Nolan's latest wonder concerning Batman is a movie that sets a before and after in its genre and joins its perfect companion; its predecessor "Batman Begins". It had been a long time since I had seen so much adrenaline on a screen, but then again Nolan's Batman is what it is because it isn't just about the adrenaline. It's still daylight in Gotham when a masterful opening sequence (supported by James Newton Howard and Hans Zimmer-again-magical score) gives way for a robbery to take place; organized by a man who calls himself The Joker (Heath Ledger), someone we would instantly take as a villain. If normally villains don't call themselves villains in superhero movies, this one says a lot of things about himself. He loves to talk and share his life philosophy with everyone he meets; he likes to joke, of course; he likes to watch people suffer with or without him watching; he dislikes rules and he likes Batman.This last statement maybe more understood once you've watched the film, but there's one of Bruce Wayne (yes, Christian Bale IS Batman) many interesting conversations with Alfred (Michael Caine) in which they discuss the nature of The Joker, and the old man points out that maybe Bruce doesn't understand this villain in particular. There will be a moment of confrontation later in which the villain will tell the superhero: "You complete me". That phrase reminded me of the great movie "Unbreakable" is. But, actually, what is a hero and what is a villain? In Nolan's brilliant screenplay (written with his brother Jonathan, a usual collaborator), full of psychological insight, this is one of the issues that floats over our head as we get lost in the ever exciting action sequences, fights and things blowing up in Nathan Crowley's spectacular production design. "It's not what underlies you, but what you do that defines you", a Rachel Dawes now played truthfully by Maggie Gyllenhaal told Bruce in "Batman Begins". Her words resonate, as Batman continues to fight evil with her, Gordon (Gary Oldman) and a new ally, the D.A. Harvey Dent (a superb Aaron Eckhart). Let's not forget that Batman is more human than any of the other superheroes of the comic books. In this film, he's never able to call himself a hero and he thinks of quitting; without knowing if he's the guardian the city needs or deserves. But in all this realness, to continue watching him fall, to see him using his gadgets and his vehicles as a pro, to see that intelligence may surpass a gun to win a little fight or to generate fire without the need of any explosive; is one of "The Dark Knight's" treats to the viewer. Another major treat for the viewer is the presence of a villain (or criminal, if you prefer, as The Joker refers to himself when he says the town "deserves a better kind of criminal"-again the issue of deserving someone or not; a villain or a hero-) that equals Batman in human qualities. I don't mean that The Joker has principles we may admire (although many people will find inspiring things in his weirdness), I'm simply referring to the fact that he doesn't fly through the air or owns magic powers and he just uses what he has in hand to serve some kind of purpose. Heath Ledger steals the film (and will get an Oscar nomination, because dreaming has no cost) and makes a wonderful Joker, mainly, because he embraces this human aspect of the character Christian Bale understood so well in "Batman Begins". Without overacting, Ledger creates an individual that we can call a freak, because it's the first thing that crosses our mind when we meet him. He has all this makeup in his face and two scars; he has a lot of stories to explain the origin of these scars. Ledger tells every story convincingly, and leaves no room for the viewer to fully understand him. His character has no name, nor he possesses the background story we see many times with heroes and villains; however we get to perceive an amount of grimness in his look and we want to know exactly where it comes from. It's Heath Ledger's great acting what generates all this.The rest of the ensemble, as in "Batman Begins", is top-notch. Michael Caine is given more screen time and makes the best of it; so does the great Morgan Freeman and Gary Oldman. There are surely many other perspectives in which the film can be viewed and discussed, and that reflects the very good piece Nolan has created; a movie that's profound in the best sense of the word<U+0085>A word we don't use so much for comic book movies.Anyway<U+0085>Batman may not know if he's the protector Gotham needs or deserves, but "The Dark Knight" is undoubtedly the superhero movie the film-goer deserves and has been waiting for since its predecessor; a film that even someone who knows nothing about comics, like me, celebrates with a big smile<U+0085>Why so serious?


                
The Dark Knight was a very good follow up to Christopher Nolan's first batman film Batman begins. I watched this last night and enjoyed it pretty much but it didn't really blew me away as compared to Tim Burton's version of Batman. I enjoyed it particularly because of the acting, music, atmosphere which were phenomenal. I gave it 8 stars because I wasn't really into this whole "dark" batman thing and Jack Nicholsan as Joker was deeply etched in my memory ever since I watched it when I was only 6. The movie started of with a bang with Joker(Heath Ledger) as he robs a bank and killing his accomplices one by one so which led him to leaving with the entire amount of money robbed that day. Joker wasn't actually in need of the money, he was robbing mainly for the thrill of it as could be seen later in the movie when he burns down a mountain of cash. Heath ledger did an amazing job as acting the downright evil, corrupt, insane, psychotic nemesis of batman as he goes all out his way against what batman upholds: justice, even to the point where he made Harvey Dent aka half-face( Aaron Eckhart) a villain to Gotham city who was previously deemed as "white knight" of Gotham. Comparing it to Jack Nicholsan's rendition of Joker, Heath Ledger's version of Joker was more scary, evil and less funny which was similar to the later versions of the comic book.Besides Heath Ledger, the rest of the cast were excellent. Christian Bale has done a tremendous job as our Caped Crusader as he struggles between his 2 personalities of being a rich heir and an upholder of justice which also puts his relationship with Rachel Dawes on the rocks.Aaron Eckhart also did an amazing job as "white knight." His sense of justice was also what brought him and Rachel Dawes(Maggie Gyllenhaal) together. However, the loss of his love and with Joker's mind-playing, he was drove to insanity and became the villain that he would have previously hated. Aaron Eckhart's portrayal of Harvey Dent's as he struggles with emotions, justice and insanity brought Half-face to another level.Maggie Gyllenhaal did great replacement for Katie Holmes as Wayne's love interest Rachel Dawes, as she shows more sensitive and caring side towards Bruce but chose Harvey in the end. Michael Caine(Alfred) also delivered as the loyal butler who cares and took care of Bruce as well as Morgan Freeman(Lucius Fox), aiding Batman in the remake of his batsuit, batmobile and use of equipments and technology. Gary Oldman( Lt. James Gordon) also deserves an applaud as Batman's sidekick and police officer as both track down Joker.In short, this is probably one of the best 2008 films but not without its flaws. Firstly, there were too many characters for the given time. Both Joker and Batman were supposedly the main cast but so was Harvey. I wished that he was given more screen time as half-faced because the ending seemed a little rushed. There should be more acknowledgement to his role. Secondly, there were times where I got confused as the film progresses and I couldn't understand the discussions between La(Chinese mobster)and Bruce as well as the significance of Joker's killings. True he killed them to lure out Batman but I couldn't understand why he chose them. I feel that this film will appeal to audiences of a larger age group or those who read the comics. Teenagers might find it hard to understand. I had problems with it initially but after the movie, when I pieced everything together, then it started to make sense.
One thing's for sure: comic book based movies are here to stay. Once before they were B-movie, red headed stepchildren with very miniscule budgets and low grade actors, now these films regularly attract A-list talent both in front and behind the camera. The latest in this summer comic book slate is THE DARK KNIGHT, the sequel to the well received and awesomely successful Batman reboot BATMAN BEGINS and continues right where it left off.Where the first movie dealt with the origins of how and why Batman came to be, this sequel now moves onto a larger canvas: the storyline now revolves around the consequences of Batman's appearance in a city gripped by crime and hopelessness. With the demise of former mob boss Carmine Falcone's power in Gotham City, the various crime syndicates are now leaderless and trying to reconsolidate as Batman (Christian Bale) AKA billionaire playboy Bruce Wayne continues his relentless assault to restore order. In the first film director Chris Nolan portrayed Gotham as a sort of cross between the slums of Hong Kong and Chicago of the Al Capone era with lots of rain and gloom, now Gotham is depicted as being very similar to New York, with many massive high rises and somewhat sunnier skies, it seems Gotham is literally coming back to life.But even with new fearless district attorney Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart in his best role to date), it seems the city is just a few steps ahead of the rising tide of criminality that is beginning to strike back against its newfound heroes and it manifests itself into a new and powerful adversary called the Joker (Heath Ledger in his final film role). I have always found that the main differences between the main comic book makers Marvel and DC is in the portrayal of their heroes- whereas Marvel superheroes tend to be average guys and gals who are thrust with superpowers and lots of responsibility, DC superheroes tend to be iconic representations of the human condition: Superman is a depiction of the ideals and greatness of mankind while Batman represents vigilantism and revenge. As the plot of the movie unfolds, the forces of law and order, represented by Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman once again reprises his role and it has been expanded considerably) and Harvey Dent, battle it out on the streets of Gotham city against the forces of criminality with mob bosses Eric Roberts and Michael Jai White (yes, the SPAWN guy is here too) allied with chaos and anarchy which is represented by the Joker with Batman the vigilante smack dab in the middle of it all. Despite Batman being on the side of order, his very methods create a copycat gang of vigilantes who style themselves after him which puts the city even closer to the brink. As all the swirling plot lines culminate into one big showdown, Batman must make his choices carefully as every action he takes creates unintended and sometimes tragic consequences.The last great movie I saw since last year was NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN but I can say that THE DARK KNIGHT finally gives me a satisfaction that I had been missing for over a year now. The acting is superb with many old faces returning- Morgan Freeman is homely as Lucius Fox while Oldman has a larger role and consequently gets to shine even further. Maggie Gyllenhaal as the new Rachel Dawes is an infinitely better actress than her predecessor (though I thought Katie Holmes looked sexier even though she had zero talent) but her role is somewhat subdued and we never got more into her character. Christian Bale is adequate for the role of Batman/Bruce Wayne though he doesn't seem to put in anything new to the character (I still think Micheal Keaton was the best movie Batman). The big question is obviously on Heath Ledger and he delivers a deliciously wicked and sadistic Joker- very similar to Jack Nicholson's take on the character and that's a compliment; my only peeve is that he wasn't given a permanent smile like the previous Jokers in the movie and comic book- slightly different take but still very, very entertaining and fits in well with Nolan's more realistic version of the venerable Bat franchise. It is sad that Ledger will never be able to reprise his role and his makeup seems so similar to that of the equally late Brandon Lee in THE CROW that the parallels are eerie. Unlike the past incarnations of the movie and cartoon Jokers, Ledgers performance has transformed the Joker from a villain with a smile on his face into anarchy incarnate- he is no longer just a bad guy but a force of nature. The big surprise here is Aaron Eckhart's portrayal of Harvey Dent- he steals every scene he is in and watching his fall from grace is like seeing that of an epic Shakespearean tragedy.Terrific action sequences and nail biting suspense adds to an epic sequel: 8 out of 10.
