Not very common in American media is the concept of many Indians not liking Ghandi. Many people in sub continent were very happy with British trade and large improvements. British people also bring new medicine and help very impoverish areas with new technology unknown to Indian world. Trade also work both ways as many Indian people introduce to the product from Europe. Also quality of life improve maybe not for all Indian citizen but every one family improved mean the one step better. Very large shame since would of been interesting to see how area would be like today if British people continue to make India more modern. Even today health of citizens very low and high birth rates continue to make problems for not just area but entire planet and planet's resources. Many of current problems in India the British could of help solve if still able to administer after all this time. Another area of problem in the sub continent were British administration could of help is in the field of crime. Same could be said of other fields but too numerous to list in this computer forum. This film have high quality and give impression falsely to people that all Ghandi actions good for Indians and all British actions bad for Indians. Film must not be taken as truth. Therefore film worth 3/10.


                
Was Gandhi a great person? The answer will always be "yes". Was he a leader in a possibly violent country? This film shows the answer to be "yes". Did he deserve a three-hour epic devoted to his life and teachings? This cinephile believes so. Did director Richard Attenborough successfully give his audience an unbiased story of Mohandas K. Gandhi, which included a personal element, a patriotic element, as well as a historical element? Sadly, my response to this is "no". There is no doubt in my mind that Attenborough created a beautiful, picturesque view of India controlled by British rule and chose a subject very close to his heart. There is quite a bit of emotion behind the film itself, but I finished watching this picture with a feeling that I didn't quite know Gandhi himself. I knew the work that he had accomplished, the power behind his teachings, but who was this little man from India? That is where I thought Attenborough completely missed the opportunity in this award-winning film. He gave us the images and the one-sided history lesson, but he completely forgot to develop his main character. How did this win so many awards?I realize that the first paragraph of this review contains quite a bit of questions, but they were all questions that I had upon finishing this so-called grandiose epic. To begin, I do not believe that Ben Kingsley should have been awarded what he did for his role. He may have acted the part of Gandhi, but he (at least in my eyes) never looked the part. Here was a man who would stave himself for his people, but after such a long fast, Kingsley looked like he had just finished a couple of pizzas. I think I was expecting a sort of transformation as we saw Mr. Hanks do in Castaway, but alas, my ideas were quenched when Kingsley's belly bulged from his clothing. Also, who was this man? I saw so much passion in Kingsley when the film opened, but after that moment on the train, he seemed to be following his lines on script and leaving his true emotion to the curb. Was he the best actor for the role? I believe that he did a great job of "acting" like Gandhi, but I do not think he could be labeled as "the best". I needed more, sorry, meat to this character. I wanted to see Gandhi when he was in school, outside of the passive protests, with his family, but neither Kingsley nor Attenborough could give us this. I saw Gandhi on the screen, but that doesn't mean that I witnessed a true, strong, character-driven epic before my eyes. I saw beautiful pictures, but not enough about the beauty of this man.Attenborough has the tendency to build really strong biography epics. I enjoyed watching Chaplin, though I didn't think it was a powerful enough story on Chaplin himself, it was nonetheless enjoyable. I enjoyed watching Gandhi, but I just felt that Attenborough fast-forwarded through some of the most crucial elements to this monumental man's life. One of the scenes that I was most looking forward to was Gandhi's powerful pilgrimage to the Indian Ocean. I was ready for this emotional tearjerker that would eventually culminate into demonstrating the true power of this little man. What I instead witnessed was three minutes of Gandhi walking out of his village and suddenly making it to the ocean with no such sign of fatigue or strain. It was mere minutes, when it should have been a bigger scene in this story. That is where Attenborough went wrong. His attention to detail seemed flawed. He was focused on the bigger picture, thus forgetting the power of the smaller stories. A great biography will attempt to do both. It will show the power of this figure on a grand scale, but then zoom in closer to the actual person so that we can see the inner struggles they were facing on a daily basis. A film that correctly gives us this true mix is Nixon. Stone's biography picture does a great job in giving us the man and the nation that didn't stand behind him.Overall, I thought this was an enjoyable film to watch, but a horrid portrayal of this man's life. Throughout the film I continually felt pity for the British rule, and I am assuming that was not what Attenborough wanted to happen during this film. I wanted to see more behind Gandhi, more about the British rule (I do not believe they were as "evil" as depicted), and more about the people. I needed more information and less sweeping landscape images. There were even a couple of scenes where Attenborough had such great landscape happening that it covered up the words of Gandhi <U+0085> is that how you build power towards this great man? I wish I could have seen more about the media coverage of Gandhi's life. While Martin Sheen and Candice Bergen were interesting in their own roles, I still felt as if they were so underdeveloped. There should have more connection between these active players and Gandhi. I continued to feel as if they slipped in and out of the scene as fast as Gandhi's "quick" pilgrimage. Gandhi is a man that deserves to have a motion picture devoted to him, I just do not believe that Gandhi was the film to best represent this powerful man's passionate mission! Grade: ** out of *****


                
As a film lover, I have recently gotten suspicious of biopics and historical films. These kinds of movies tend to sugarcoat the truth to present almost typical Hollywood stories, for instance, making some people who weren't all that bad, the main villains, simply so the audiences can identify an antagonist (The Aviator is a big offender in this category). Gandhi (1982) falls into many of the these traps that other biopics fall into and as a result, becomes an over- glorification, a complete lie, and something that almost doesn't resemble a story, but merely a collage of events.The film basically presents us with the major events of Gandhi's career: his time working against British oppression of Indians as a lawyer in South Africa, the Amritsar massacre, the March of Salt, Gandhi's assassination, etc. The events are simply presented, very accurately from what I read about them, but the film leaves out many things about him that weren't very noble. Reading about events in Gandhi's life from all different sources, like books and online articles, I can safely say that I am appalled by some of the things that this man has done.When fighting British oppression of Indians in South Africa, he basically ignored native South Africans that have lived in the country much longer than any Indian or British person. Second, he was cruel to his family, so much so that his son spoke out against him and later died as a drunk; he even negatively compared his own wife to a cow. Additionally, when his wife was sick, he refused to give her British medicine and yet was willing to take it himself when he had malaria. After Hitler came to power and WWII started, he wrote to Hitler, addressing him as a friend, and after the war was over, he himself said that many of the Jews from the Holocaust should have let themselves die and submit to the oppression of the Nazis. Any sensible man or woman would know that this is could be nothing more than an insane and horrible suggestion and that it would be simply impossible to deal with the Nazis using Gandhi's ideas. This was the Gandhi that so many people idolized? I even read an article from The Guardian saying that a biography about Gandhi was forbidden for publication because it revealed too many things about his life.Other than the fact that the film is lying to everyone who sees it, the film is just too preachy. It doesn't barrage you with moral lessons every second of screen time, but half of the dialogue is moral lessons and guidelines on life and doesn't feel very natural. Even in the beginning, when it shows Gandhi's funeral, an announcer covering the funeral outright tells the audience (indirectly) what to think of Gandhi and how others, like Albert Einstein viewed him, and that we should view him that way too. Richard Attenborough, the director and producer, was actually advised against glorifying Gandhi. I don't get why he didn't take that advice to heart, considering that this was a passion project to him. Even some of the British officials in the film act like two-dimensional bad guys. One of the only positive things I can say about this film is that Ben Kingsley nails it as this film's version of Gandhi. He makes me wish that the Gandhi that has been glorified by the world was a real person, instead of the flawed and sometimes frightening human being that actually existed on this Earth. The film also has a genuinely good message, but like I said, it's just turned into a preachy sermon throughout most of the movie.What else can I say? I was so disappointed to realize that so much of this man's life was left out and simplified simply to be more Hollywood-friendly and attract more crowds. That is complete BS. What a movie biopic should do, I think, is have the courage to present the uglier details of a person's life and as a result, feel more challenging. Plus, don't preach a moral lesson to us if a person lived by one, because that's being unsubtle. Let us figure it out for ourselves. Some of those things I said were applied in the excellent film, Raging Bull, by Martin Scorsese. Not only is the film mostly true to life, according to Jake LaMotta, whom the film was based on, but it wasn't afraid to portray LaMotta as a brute of a man like he was in his boxing heyday and it didn't outright tell you what to think of LaMotta or how he was thinking; instead, it kept you guessing with Robert De Niro's performance and the cinematography. Gandhi is just too afraid to turn a man who undeniably made major contributions to humanity into anything less than what people wish to see him as. As a result, this film is disgraceful and is too much of a piece of Oscar bait to be genuinely good. I'm sorry, members of the Academy, but you made a terrible choice for the Best Picture of 1982.
