"The object of this massive tribute died as he had always lived, without wealth, without property, without official title or office.  Mahatma Gandhi was not the commander of armies, nor the ruler of vast lands.  He could not boast any scientific achievement or artistic gift.  Yet men, governments, dignitaries from all over the world, have joined hands today to pay homage to the little brown man in the loin cloth, who led his country to freedom."This quote is from the funeral scene in the 1982 film "Gandhi".  Richard Attenborough directed this massive epic about the man that freed India. The film opens with Gandhi's assassination.  The next scene, his funeral, is one of the greatest scenes in cinematic history. Attenborough managed to recreate Gandhi's funeral on January 31st, 1981, the 33rd anniversary of the actual funeral.  It is estimated that nearly 400,000 people were on hand to be a part of the filming the recreation. This film was made before CGI (computer generated images), so the funeral scene is probably the last live action crowd of that magnitude that will ever be filmed.
Mahatma Gandhi's message of non-violent resistance is delivered in an interesting and enthralling body of art.  This film has made and will make millions of people aware of the little brown man that took on the British Empire and won.  "Gandhi" serves both as entertainment and an important historical record of one of the most important figures in history.
Ben Kingsley played Gandhi.  He was the perfect for the role.  He resembled the real Gandhi.  He was young enough to portray Gandhi as a young man. He is a British actor that nailed the British influenced Indian accent.   He is a wonderful actor that was patient and humble with such an important part. And he was a relatively unknown actor at the time, so the "big-time actor" persona did not get in the way of viewing the film.  He did win both the Academy Award and Golden Globe for best actor, for this role, which I agree he deserved.  He became Gandhi.The cinematography was outstanding.  Attenborough filmed "Gandhi" on location in India.  The scenes of India are spectacular, and India is very much another character in the film.  This film is as much about India itself as it is about Gandhi.  Attenborough shows the audience the people of India from its countryside to the vast city of Calcutta.  It is suggested by Kingsley, on the DVD, that Attenborough had a difficult time with the elite class in India at the time of filming.  They were against the making of such a film by an Englishman.  Undeterred by their negative thinking, he persevered to enlist thousands of Indians to help make this film.  Every crowd scene, he used real Indians from the area. Attenborough also won both the Academy Award and Golden Globe for best direction.This movie is a must see for everyone.  It should be required viewing in high schools, as part of History class.  The fight against prejudice will forever be relevant.  It is also a beautiful work of art.  This movie is not tainted by the embellishment of Hollywood (see "Pearl Harbor" for that). Of course, it would have been hard to screw up a movie about such a great man. 10/10


                
Biography of Mohandas K. 'Mahatma Gandhi' , the lawyer who became the famed leader of the Indian revolts against the British rule through his philosophy of nonviolent protest . Gandhi (excellent Ben Kingsley) realizes that the laws are biased against Indians and decides to start a non-violent protest campaign for the rights of all Indians in South Africa . Gandhi returns to India in 1915, when he has now abandoned his western clothing for more basic self-made garb of shawls and loincloths . Too weak from World War II to continue enforcing its will in India, Britain finally grants India's independence . Indians celebrate this victory, but their troubles are far from over. He is asked by prominent Indian figures of the day, such as Jawaharlal Nehru (Roshan Seth) , Sardar Vallabhai Patel (Saeed Jaffrey) and Mohammad Ali Jinnah (Padamsee) , to join the fight for Indian independence from the British, despite some within that group believing Gandhi's methods ineffective . Religious tensions between Hindus and Muslims erupt into nation-wide violence. Gandhi declares a hunger strike . All events leading to his assassination in 1948 . It's an enjoyable historical drama story where the protagonist , Ben Kingsley , is awesome . Ben Kingsley looked so much like Mohandas K. Gandhi, many natives thought him to be Gandhi's ghost , Kingsley was recommended for the role by Harold Pinter, who had seen him in a play. This exciting , overproduced and immortal story is plenty of emotion , realized in documentary style , though sometimes results to be overlong . It is an epic and moving tale , as the starring fights violent forces , taking on the risks to survive in a world surrounded by hatred , racism and intolerance . The script relies heavily on the Gandhi life but it doesn't originate boring . It's a brilliant story and though is slow-moving , isn't tiring . Ample support cast formed by notorious secondaries playing brief roles , many of them performing historical characters , such as Candice Bergen as photographer Margaret Bourke-White , Edward Fox as General Dyer , John Gielgud as Lord Irwin , Trevor Howard as Judge Broomfield , John Mills as The Viceroy , and Indian actors such as Saeed Jaffrey as Sardar Patel , Alyque Padamsee as Mohammed Ali Jinnah , Om Puri , Amrish Puri as Khan and Roshan Seth as Pandit Nehru . Furthermore , uncredited Daniel Day Lewis , Dominic Guard , Richard Griffiths , Bernard Hill and John Ratzenberger's brief scene ; being the last film of John Boxer and Sir John Clements. Lush cinematography woven into a rich and exotic tapestry from Ronnie taylor and Billy Williams . Sensitive score by George Fenton , including musical sounds with Hindu motives by Ravi Shankar . The picture was stunningly directed by Richard Attenborough , though no studio was interested in financing the film . Richard cited that most of the financing were solicited from Joseph E. Levine whom agreed to finance in exchange of Attenborough directing A bridge too far and Magic. Richard won the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director for this film . The motion picture was correctly based on historic events , these are the following : Gandhi returns to India in 1915 from South Africa , there he carries out the 'salt march' , he subsequently declares a hunger strike, saying he will not eat until the fighting stops . The fighting does stop eventually, but the country is divided . The actual division between the two new dominions was done according to what has come to be known as the 3 June Plan or Mountbatten Plan . The border between India and Pakistan was determined by a British Government-commissioned report usually referred to as the Radcliffe Line after the London lawyer, Sir Cyril Radcliffe, who wrote it. During 1947, after 350 years of occupying India, the British decide to leave, but not before separating Islamic Pakistan and secular India. Millions of Muslims crossed from India to Pakistan, while an equal number of Hindus, Sikhs, and Christians crossed over from the other side .Pakistan came into being with two non-contiguous enclaves, East Pakistan (today Bangladesh) and West Pakistan, separated geographically by India. India was formed out of the majority Hindu regions of the colony, and Pakistan from the majority Muslim areas. Countries of Modern Indian sub-continent . On 18 July 1947, the British Parliament passed the Indian Independence Act that finalized the partition arrangement. The newly formed governments were completely unequipped to deal with migrations of such staggering magnitude, and massive violence and slaughter occurred on both sides of the border. Estimates of the number of deaths range around roughly 500,000, with low estimates at 200,000 and high estimates 1.000.000. Gandhi spent his last days trying to bring about peace between both nations. He thereby angers many dissidents on both sides, one of whom finally gets close enough to assassinate him.


                
This movie deals with issues such as oppression, colonization, and most of all : non-violence in a way that i quite unique. There is much more action in this film as there is in The Matrix which indeed appears monotonous and boring after several times. it is not a matter of watching exploding helicopter but rather hearing and seeing a small poor man making the English shale in their boots after they realize how wrong their Civilization Dogmas are. I guess Gandhi is much underrated as most disturbing films might be. Concerning the actors, Ben Kingsley is actually astonishing and, until I sawthe beginning of this film, then "Dave", I seriously thought he was around 60 years old. That also goes for the make-up artists. Gandhi is one of my all-time favorites and truely desserves to be broadcasted in School in order to teach children how far from the truth their education leads them.


                
''There may be tyrants and murderers, and for a time, they may seem invincible, but in the end, they always fail.'' - Mohandas Gandhi This quote from the movie 'Gandhi', which was published in 1982, and produced and directed by Richard Attenborough, who also worked on various different movie genres and didn't only concentrate on historical movies or biographies, shows Gandhis' view of riots and violence in India. The film tells the story of Mohandas Gandhi, an Indian citizen fighting for equality and independence. Many people showed great interest in his life, which led to 8 Oscar-Acadamy-Awards and great success. The movie starts with a scene, in which Gandhi is assassinated and continues with his funeral in 1948. Then, there is a time leap to 1893, where Gandhi gets thrown off of a train in South Africa, because he isn't white. Because of that and other aspects of discrimination, he starts his first protest, in which he already follows his concept of satyagraha, a peaceful way of protest. The movie goes on and more and more people follow him and participate in his protests, making them more powerful. After a while, almost every Indian knows, who Mohandas Gandhi is, making his hunger fast a powerful weapon against war and riots. The film shows his influence on the people and on India generally and how he affected India's history and possibly prevented the death of many people. The actor, which plays Gandhi, Ben Kingsley, is very convincing. He transfers Gandhi's calmness and wiseness, but also his word power and influence on other Indians. It is shown that Gandhi would have willingly died at a protest or at a hunger strike, if it had helped to create peace in India. He thought of India as a union between Muslims, Hindus and all other religious groups, which was also why he was against partitioning India. His view on the problem seemed to be the right view, as mass violence and riots were only a few effects of Partition. The movie, which was filmed in India, preserves a great insight into the true life of an Indian at that time. It shows the discrimination, starting in the second scene, in which Gandhi is thrown off of the train, because he refused to leave the first class, which was only for white people. In another scene it is shown that Indians weren't allowed to walk on the side walk, since again, only white people were allowed to walk on there. In almost every scene it gets clear that the British were clearly privileged and the Indians were less worth as much than the British. Altogether, I would recommend watching the movie, since it isn't only historically informative but also allows an inside look into the life of Indians at the time of Partition. It shows that almost every Indian was invested into the war and the riots and that there was barely a way to avoid it. In my opinion, it also illustrates the big impact of Mohandas Gandhi and that the war wouldn't have passed as peaceful as it did with him.
This film from Richard Attenborough was the second 1980s success story for British cinema, and rightly so, winning Oscars including Best Actor for Ben Kingsley - playing Gandhi brilliantly here.  Even if you don't know the story of Gandhi and where he was coming from, you can gain some understanding of and empathy with the man through this film.Famous faces appear in brief roles throughout, including Edward Fox, Trevor Howard, John Mills, John Gielgud, and Saeed Jaffrey.  Weightier roles go to Candice Bergen, Geraldine James, Roshan Seth (as Nehru), and Ian Charleson, and all have a chance to shine.  There's also a brief early appearance from Daniel Day-Lewis as the chap who hassles Gandhi for walking on the pavement in the company of the white reverend.A lengthy film and one which, of necessity, focuses on the politics of the time and the liberation of a state under the thumb of imperialist rule; but 'Gandhi' doesn't shy away from showing its subject as a human being and a man of integrity.


                
This movie is an excellent example that a great film is not solely based on the most modern special effects, but instead manages to bring the life of a most exceptional man nearer to the viewer. The choice of the music also served to create an atmosphere that could almost be grasped while watching the events unfold. I especially liked the way Ben Kingsley played the role of Mahatma Ghandi, showing not only his political ambitions and his ideals, but also conveying his more private side, his smiles and his relationship to his wife and people like Nehru. Although some parts of the movie were a bit too long for my taste, e.g. the shooting of the Indian people on the marketplace, it is still a very recommendable movie for everyone who wants to learn more about the life of the "Great Soul".


                
Very , very rarely does an actor produce a performance so good that it overshadows the film because of it's brilliance. De Niro in Raging bull and Steve Mqueen in Papillon spring to mind but in my opinion Ben kingsley's performance in Gandhi is even better. The film isn't better but the the performance is. The way kingsley goes from a young lawyer to a very old and withered man is remarkable. The film itself is good if not a little dated. It isnt edge of the seat stuff and for me is maybe an hour too long but the way Attenborough bring such a large group of people (extras) together and maked these people look passionate is a great achievment. 8 out of 10.


                
Richard Attenborough's "Gandhi" charts the life of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the political and spiritual figure who led a non-violent resistance movement against British Colonial rule in India. The film touches upon all the now famous cornerstones of Gandhi's life. We watch Gandhi being educated in Britain, follow his life as a provincial lawyer, and observe his work in South Africa. It is here, in 1893, that he began to represent indentured Indian labourers, emerging as a voice of conscience and a representative of those subjected to racial discrimination.The film then watches as Gandhi returns to India in 1915. Here he seeks to ignite a "moral reformation" which renders the British occupation - responsible for almost 1.8 billion deaths over a roughly 200 year period - defunct. Gandhi's strategies for non-violent civil disobedience (satyagraha) initially appear impractical, but they soon begin drawing support. In 1920, under Gandhi's leadership, local Congress was reorganised and given the explicit goal of seeking self governance. Gandhi then urged the Indian people to boycott British education institutions, courts and products, to resign from government employment, to refuse to pay taxes, and to forsake British titles and honours; full spectrum resistance. Gandhi's party was then transformed from an elite organisation to one of mass national appeal. In his writings Gandhi would express his belief that "radical non violence ultimately brings one's oppressor around to one's own side". This was true to some extent, as Attenborough ably shows. On the other hand, it was really WW2, many violent Indian protests and the sheer contradictions of capitalism which made the Empire collapse. The British Raj was itself but the outcome of the nationalization or "bailing out" of failing private financial cartels. In other words, Gandhi simply struck when the system was crumbling anyway.But Attenborough doesn't care. Instead he offers your typical Gandhi tale: against the Goliath of the modern, imperial super-state, it was the diminutive Gandhi who stood up, David-like, against its might. He showed the modern world that people should never be overlooked. He paralysed Britain, thwarting its imperial ambitions, revealing the limits of its power by undermining its economic self-sufficiency through coordinated, mass campaigns of non-violent non-cooperation. This, some say, was also the path that in the end "defeated" the even more muscular Soviet Union. We also see the emergence, during this very same period, of Gandhi's more violent alter ego, Mao Tse-Tung, whose revolutionary violence was equally effective in winning independence from his more brutal foes, both the imperial Japanese and the industrial Nationalists."Gandhi" contains a last-act subplot in which Gandhi rejects the proposal for the partitioning India and the "creation" of Pakistan. But of course it was Gandhi who first signed onto the proposal. He was a thoroughly caste-oriented Hindu, offering only moral friendship to Muslims, who shrewdly wanted political power too. When Pakistan and India split, you then had much bloodshed, many massacres and long-lasting tensions. Blaming this on Gandhi, though, is perhaps unfair. The British Empire tirelessly pushed for the splitting of India; all Empires practise divide and conquer tactics, especially when "granting independence" to their ex-colonies. The goal is destabilisation, fragmentation and the continual plundering of these nations by proxy."Gandhi's" pure Hollywood, so other complexities are ignored. The irony of Gandhi "freeing" Indians in South Africa, for example, whilst being outwardly racist to Africans is neglected (in 1906 he'd actively participate in the war against blacks). The caste system - where society is arranged on a four level hierarchy based on skin colour - is itself the bedrock of Hinduism, the darker skinned relegated to the lower levels. None of this is in Attenborough's film. One other irony is that Gandhi emerged at a unique historic moment just as the Age of Empire began its rapid post-War decline, beginning its de-colonial contraction from an era marked by a global land grab to a more insular and self-governing age. But how much did the effectiveness of Gandhi's channelling of "latent energy into massive non-violent expression" depend directly on violent expression, namely Hitler, WW2's toil on the British Empire and massive bloodshed in Europe? Attenborough's film is well shot, paced, epic and engrossing, but also ultimately shameless hagiography, with a little Oscar baiting and David Lean pretensions sprinkled about. Attenborough, an actor himself, is very much a man or surfaces, direct statements and the literal. What you see is what you get.The film stars Ben Kingsley as Gandhi, whom Attenborough elevates to sainthood by mercilessly stripping away all psychology or inner life. Kingsley's fitting or wildly miscast (a white guy as Gandhi?) depending on what you smoke. Attenborough also errs in seeing the independence struggle solely as a battle between British colonialists and the Indian nationalist leadership. This is an elitist history that suppresses the voices and actions of the subaltern, the Indian peasantry, who were highly engaged in fighting colonial rule. Both the British and Indian elites wrongly viewed the subaltern as being pre-political and regressive.Today India has adopted Western-styled economic reforms. She is now one of the largest economies in the world (as she once was pre the arrival of the British). This has not abated massive rises in poverty, income inequality, environmental damage, exploitation and malnutrition. Over half of India's population now lives below the poverty line, and she contains more poor people than all of sub-Saharan Africa. Attenborough directed "Cry Freedom" in 1987, a preachy film about apartheid.8/10 – Good, but overly reverential, one-note, holy and white. See "A Dry White Season", "Mishima" and Pontecorvo's "Burn!".
This film had been a pet project of Sir Richard Attenborough's which took almost quarter of a century to reach the screen. Sir Richard is a very staunch pacifist and Gandhi is definitely the one of the greatest pacifists within living memory. This film certainly taught us all a great deal more about him and introduced many to his very sensible maxim "An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind". Although his approach to his religion was too strict for many people it is very creditable how ecumenical he was. He declared himself not just a Hindu but a Christian, a Jew, a Muslim and a Buddhist. His adherence to his pacifism was remarkable and he achieved infinitely more by being not violent than anyone could by being violent. One of his other sayings, not quoted in the film, was "I am against violence. The good it does is only temporary. The evil it does is permanent". Very true! The pace of the film, though, is a bit slow. It plods along like the Mahatma on one of his protest marches and has a bit of a history lesson air to it. Certainly, until I saw this film I had never heard of the Amritsar massacre. It is good the scene where General Dyer says at the enquiry that he would have given aid to any wounded who had "applied" and then the barrister asks "General Dyer, how does a child shot with a 303 Lee Enfield "apply" for help?". He has no answer to give. It is very poignant the following scene where Gandhi and Pandit Nehru are looking down the well which several people jumped down in order to escape the fusillade of bullets. None of them survived. The film though does contain a few slightly melodramatic touches, characteristic of Richard Attenborough, such as the wee one crying next to his slain mother during the massacre. I have not seen the actor Peter Harlow in any other films but he is absolutely spot on as Lord Mountbatten, to whom the film is dedicated, a man who took a great deal of interest in this film during its long gestation and who was tragically and brutally murdered by the IRA. A demonstration of how pointless violence is. Although this film is good, like a lot of early 80s films it is a bit over-rated. Like Chariots of Fire, if it were being made nowadays it would be a lot more impressive with the help of a bit of CGI. It would also be different in that we have a very different approach to historic films nowadays.


                
Biography of Mohandas K. Gandhi (Ben Kingsley), the lawyer who became the famed leader of the Indian revolts against the British rule through his philosophy of nonviolent protest.The cast is pretty amazing: Martin Sheen, Candice Bergen, Daniel Day-Lewis. But Ben Kingsley, of course, steals the show. Unfortunately, it seems he has not maintained the same level of respect since this performance. In everything from "Schindler's List" to "Iron Man 3" he has shown incredible range, but does not seem to be the A-lister he ought to be.The film is something of an epic in the vein of David Lean, reminding viewers of "Lawrence of Arabia". This is the rise of a national hero. Now, it could be criticized for portraying Gandhi in too positive a light (he had negative qualities, too) but when the film is done this well, it is hard to complain.


                
Attenborough is one of the few filmmakers who attempts to tell stories with as much historical accuracy as one can in movies. Here Attenborough tries to manipulate the story as little as possible in order to not take it far away from fact but at the same time he fails to show the flawed side of the character. Gandhi is recognized as a historical icon for his ideals. The fatal decision Gandhi made, by handing over decision to Jinnah on whether to separate the Muslims and Hindus was one of his biggest mistakes and I'm glad that Attenborough did not shy away from displaying this. But at the same time he leaves out certain important facts of Gandhis life (like his estrangement with his son, his wife's struggle with his ideals, signing the document that lead to the death sentence of revolutionary Bhagat Singh's death), It may be due to time constraint but had he chosen to include these character flaws, it would have been easier to relate to Gandhi as a human being and a more accurate portrayal.'Gandhi' may be longer than your average Hollywood flick but the again, this isn't an average Hollywood flick. Even though it leaves out some facts (the examples of which are mentioned above), it still remains an insightful piece on history. Moreover the execution is solid, with raw authentic sets and costumes, brilliant cinematography, good editing and a restrained soundtrack.Kingsley does a fantastic job in portraying the Mahatma. He is strongly supported by a host of well-known (and talented) actors like Martin Sheen, Amrish Puri, Om Puri, Rohini Hattangadi, Saeed Jaffrey, Roshan Seth and Geraldine James among many others. Even the extras are convincing in what they're given.'Gandhi's biggest stength is its compelling storytelling through fine execution, writing and performances. It is worth a watch especially for its historical portrayal (though one should not assume to know everything about Gandhi based on this movie alone) and for someone who seeks more than a little entertainment from movies.


                
Film Review: "Gandhi" (1982)Director Richard Attenborough (1923-2014) at the peak of its creative powers, accumulating a massive independently-gathered budget throughout this international UK-based production on the real-life events of a historic cinematic-compelling figure Mahatma Gandhi (1869-1948), in this case with amazing-resemblance portrayed by actor Ben Kingsley, who carries the picture with devote charisma, when also-producing director Richard Attenborough captures the life and death of "Gandhi" from his early days as law school graduate in race war-mongering "South Africa" at the turn of the 20th century towards the outbreak of World-War-One in 1914 before this overly-righteous regarded character gets glorified to a legend of modern resistance against Imperalistic regimes in this case the India-occupying British Empire, which like no others indulges into colonialism, starting exceedingly under iron-handed ruling Queen Victoria (1819-1901).Cinematography by switching lighting cameramen and the décor of the picture are researched to the utmost of authenticity by production designer Stuart Craig, also known for winning Academy-Awards for "Dangerous Liaisons" (1988) and "The English Patient" (1996), in favors for a solidly as towards classic Intermission striking director, who has not shy away from presenting his fellow country-men as barbarous, relentless, arguably cruel ingeniously-performed due to impeccable dignity by actor Edward Fox, at age 44, when endless suffering scenes in almost two decades of the leading character's encampment under lowest life-form conditions with recurring "Hunger-Strikes" that word-of-mouth reaches the highest occupying military ranks and governmental monarchic rulers that the end of a seemingly-vvasted life of less than joy proportions gets only justified by a county's independence declared on August 15th 1947, when comparison toward today's India got closer then ever to western civilization policies of the richest and the fittest in a global player ongoing cold-served undermining war of dominion, where reason on frequent basis must perish. This "Best Picture of 1982" honored with eight Oscars, including Best Actor for Sir Ben Kingsley and Best Director Sir Richard Attenborough (1923-2014) at the Academy Awards ceremony in its 55th edition, winning over fairly-competitive pictures as Paul Newman (1925-2008) starring court-room Drama "The Verdict" directed by Sidney Lumet (1924-2011) and foreign-hostage-taking Political-Drama "Missing" directed by Costa-Gravas with "E.T.-the-Extra-Terrestrial" directed by Steven Spielberg and "Tootsie" directed by Sidney Pollack (1934-2008) keep on Hollywood entertainment factors intact.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
The biographical drama "Gandhi" was written by John Briley and directed by Richard Attenborough. It was released in 1982 and received 8 Academy Awards and Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Foreign Film in the following year. Richard Attenborough had attempted to get the project made for 18 years which demonstrates how much determination and passion were spent during the making of the film. Ben Kingsley, a British actor who, portrays Mohandas Gandhi in the film also received an Academy Award for Best Actor. The 74 year old is also well known for his performances in the films Schindler's List (1993), Shutter Island (2010), Iron Man 3 (2013) and many more. The film is about Mohandas Karamchad Gandhi's life as the leader of the Indian non-violent independence movement against the British rule in the 20th century. It begins with Gandhi's assassination on 30th January 1948, when he was shot three times by a Hindu fanatic named Nathuram Godse (Harsh Nayyar). The film goes on with a defining moment in Gandhi's life, when he is thrown off a train to Pretoria, South Africa in 1893 because of racial injustice. This particular moment convinces Gandhi to fight for equal rights for Indians first in South Africa, later in India.The film also shows Gandhi's salt march and other projects. The actors in the film were appropriately cast, because the film's production was a British-Indian cooperation and there are British and Indian actors. Ben Kingsley was a good choice as the protagonist because of his Indian heritage and great acting skills. Most of the acting is well done, especially Ben Kingsley let everyone truly imagine what the real Mohandas Gandhi was like. The viewer can see what life was like in India in the 20th century and what Gandhi, his family and his huge community was like. Ben Kingsley plays Gandhi very convincingly throughout the whole movie. The use of camera is very good because it was filmed from different angles. These angles are switching a lot to illustrate the different point of views, for example almost at the end of the movie, when Gandhi is really weak from his fast and everyone is standing around his bed, we can see all the visitors from Gandhi's perspective. This technical element creates a very diversified perspective which in my opinion is well done. The lighting contributes, like the sound to the setting and atmosphere of the film and increases the intended effect of the film. This can be seen during the different phases of Gandhi's life. At the beginning of the film, when there are only a few followers of his independence movement, these followers shout approvingly but hesitantly at him during his speeches. Later, the crowds get bigger and bigger and the people begin to shout "Long life Gandhi-j!". In contrast to these scenes, Gandhi's growing unpopularity can be seen rather at the end of the film when the crowd screams "Death to Gandhi!". I think this use of sound and also of special effects is rather interesting because it demonstrates how the masses saw Gandhi throughout his life. At the end of the film, which shows Gandhi's death from a different perspective, it can be seen how Hindu fanatics are willing to kill Gandhi because they think he is too friendly with Muslims and Christians. All in all, I think "Gandhi" is a good film because it lets the viewer get a look inside Gandhi's life and it shows his whole personality including his fears and dreams for himself, but more importantly for India. In my opinion, his family especially his children could have appeared more frequently because they are a part of his life, even though they don't seem to play a big role. Their relationship could have been touched a bit more, since it would have been interesting to see him as a father. Of course, he is or appears to be the father of India and especially India's independence but in this film it seems like he is almost a stranger to his own children. Even if that is true, this relationship would have been a significant and very interesting addition to the film which I would have really liked to see. Despite these critical remarks, I consider the film a successful one and recommend watching the film because the viewer gets an idea of Gandhi's lifestyle and personality, including his fight for equality, his philosophy of non-violent protest and his wish to see the world at peace.
The 1982 film "Gandhi", written by John Briley and produced by Richard Attenborough, tells the story of Mahatma Gandhi's life.At the beginning of the film we witness Gandhi's assassination from the perspective of the assassinator. I really liked that scene because the viewers get to see the assassination through his eyes, including Gandhi being shot. However, the scene wasn't fully shot from the assassinator's perspective. The viewers also get to see his face in a close up and someone who appears to be his accomplice. To me this scene has some kind of deeper meaning, especially when taking into consideration how the movie ends but I will get to that later on. Another thing I like about this opening scene is that the assassinator and his accomplice appear a few times throughout the movie. I think that's a nice detail and to me it seems like a metaphor, showing both, Gandhi's followers and opponents in the same scene without them actively having a conflict.The movie then goes back to 1839 when Gandhi, being a middle aged father and lawyer, gets confronted with the unfairness of society in South Africa. He is thrown off of a train because he sits in a train compartment which he isn't allowed to sit in. I liked that scene because it gives the viewers a first impression on Gandhi's personality in comparison to the construct of society at that time.After that the movie is filled with many powerful scenes showing the peaceful protest against the violence of the British police, as well as the violent conflicts between Hindus and Muslims. Another thing that I liked about the movie is the development of Gandhi and his growing audience. While at the beginning of the film we see Gandhi in a suit talking to a handful of people, at the end we see him in his simple white clothes followed by an uncountable amount of people. In addition to that, I think the scenes of his fasts and his time in prison are really impressive, not only because of the way Gandhi handled the situation but also the people around were really emotional. There's one part of the movie which I think is really precious and adds some nice details to it. By that I mean Gandhi's relationship to his wife. I absolutely adore the way the movie shows that Gandhi is still just human like everybody else, even though he did such impressive things. It is shown that he cares for his wife and stays by her side all the time, though he had some inner conflicts about that at the beginning of the movie. Their love seems so pure and honest which to me is a balance to the way Gandhi is presented throughout the rest of the film. Especially when she dies the movie seems to only focus on that for a few minutes. This is also the only scene when Gandhi cries. He smiles a lot throughout the movie even in the most difficult situations but in that scene he is shown as a man losing his wife and nothing more than just that. This is why this is one of my favourite scenes in the film. However, there are some scenes in the movie that bother me. One thing I didn't like about the movie is that there are some scenes where the characters would just a have talk for a while which made me lose interest in the movie a few times because the characters seemed to repeat themselves a lot instead of having short, impressive scenes which the viewers actually keep in mind. Another thing I don't particularly like is that sometimes the movie seems to show Gandhi as some kind of god. It is in fact true that many people saw him as a hero but sometimes it was simply too much of praise because it wasn't necessary for the viewers to see that over and over again.At the end of the movie we get to see the assassination scene again but this time from the perspective of Gandhi. Like I said before I think that scene is really impressive especially when comparing the beginning and the ending of the film. It is basically the same scene but we get to look through Gandhi's eyes. It is slightly different to the first scene because we get so see the last steps Gandhi takes as well as the last thing he sees and his last words, when at the beginning of the movie we see the way the assassinator takes and his perspective on it which is why at the end, instead of showing Gandhi's death again, the screen turns black and we hear his last words. I really like how the movie presents those two perspectives because it shows both, the part that loved Gandhi and the part that wanted to see him dead. All in all, I can say that I enjoyed the movie not just because of the story showing Gandhi's life but especially because of the little details which really turned the movie into this impressive piece of art. I would absolutely recommend that movie to anybody who wants to see the historical facts about Gandhi within a biographical drama movie.
Gandhi. Was he really responsible for India's early independence or was he just a men like everyone else? Watching the movie "Gandhi", which was written by John Briley and produced and directed by Richard Attenborough in 1982, you will get a clear answer to this question. You will also get an inside view of Gandhi's whole life. His successes and his failures. You will see how he changed because of everything that happened to him, as well as India's and the world's reaction to him. This biographical drama won eight Academy Awards and was the most successful film in 1982, which was a big surprise as the film almost never got made. Attenborough tells Gandhi's story: The story of an Indian lawyer, who returned from South Africa to help his country gain its independence through successive acts of non-violent protest. This three-hour film probably tells one of the 20th century's most remarkable stories as Mahatma Gandhi created a new form of peaceful protests in India, which have been affecting history. The movie starts with Gandhi's assassination and then goes 30 years back in time to show his key moments in his struggle of creating a peaceful India. Gandhi, however, is the kind of man, who would do anything to achieve his goal, even if this means to go to prison a couple times or nearly starving to death. It took him 30 years to accomplish what he wanted and I think this shows that everyone is able to achieve his goal with a little patience even if it seems impossible. Even though the actor Ben Kingsley won the Academy Award of Best Actor for his stunning role, one of the eight Academy Awards this film won, there are really good performances from other actors as well like Candice Bergen, John Gielgud, Edward Fox and many more. Even if the film did not win the Academy Award for best original music score, for which this film was nominated, the music is still stunning and creates a different feeling for every situation. Attenborough, who really wanted to create this movie, created an awesome drama, which helps to understand Gandhi's point of view, even if it does not have a happy ending.


                
The 1982 movie "Gandhi" written by John Briley and produced and directed by Richard Attenborough, tells the story of Gandhi's life and shows the viewer his opinion on the Indian society. It is not possible to summarize the life of a so important man like Gandhi in just one three-hour movie but the producers did a good job. The movie begins with Gandhi's assassination and I really like this idea because you first get interested in how it came to this and you witness the assassination from the perspective of the murderer. Another very powerful scene is when Gandhi burns passes, what is against the law. He gets beaten over and over again, but he still continues. This action shows a very important character trait of Gandhi. He does not fight against the police, which describes Gandhi's way of protest very well. In addition to that the scene where Gandhis followers get beaten by the soldiers is very impressive because they accepted the beating and still stood to Gandhi and his morals. Gandhi had very close relation to his family, which is impressively shown when his wife died. I like it that Gandhi also is emotional and not arrogant. The most important facts about Gandhis life are well-performed but of course some things are made very simplistic because Gandhis life was full of important events. All in all I would say that the authors did a good job because it is very difficult to produce a such an authentic and impressive biography.


                
With Mahatma Mohandas K Gandhi, a man who, in some ways, transformed how non-violent resistance has been practiced in the world for 100 years (basically in the modern era, and MLK was one of his big fans), it's hard to find someone to fill those shoes (or that white outfit he wore from a certain point till he died). Ben Kingsley is that man, and it's so magnetic a performance, so filled with empathy - or rather, he makes this man such a life-force of good, or always trying to be, or being stubborn in the face of insurmountable odds - he IS Gandhi, in a manner of speaking. All the more remarkable that, despite being from India, he is not of that skin color. Does it matter? Talent, heart, actual filling in a role to a point where color no longer matters, it's the kind of thing that helps to transcend the possibilities in movie acting.That may sound of high praise, though this is a good movie. Maybe not great, and I'll get to why for myself personally in a moment. What is impressive is that director Richard Attenborough engages the audience on a massive scale - this story takes place over a period of 50 years (it also starts at the end, with the assassination of the man in 1948). We see how he was put through racial discrimination and battery at the hands of British imperial forces in South Africa, and started off with his non-violent path of resistance all due to fingerprinting for citizens of India. Then of course it's just a matter of time from little rights like that to making the "Alien" presence of the British go away. That of course is less easier said and even harder done.It's a struggle that takes place over decades and involves in large part Gandhi winning over an entire nation, piece by piece, speech by speech (at times like that opening act at a rock concert that people don't expect much of, and then wipes everyone else away with what he has to say), and appealing to the better angels of the nature of people. The idea is simple: show the barbarism and problems of the way that Imperial rule is done, and don't fight back. We see these historical events unfold, and Gandhi, via Kingsley, has to come in as a voice that is not always seen as reasonable. When some Indians on a protest march fight back against some soldiers and then kill a couple of them in a vengeful rage, Gandhi insists everyone, all over, stop the run-up to get things moving in the fight against the British. And, Gandhi being Gandhi, he hunger strikes until all marching for freedom stops (momentarily). It won't be the last time, either.There's a lot of rich historical moments going on in the film, and a lot of is engaging just on a historical-intellectual level; in a sense it's a good brother/cousin film to Lawrence of Arabia, also about a man's attempt (kind of successful really) at changing how literally the lines of the map are drawn in a part of the world, and what happens when those very people have to forge new identities. In Arabia it was the cutting-up of countries into what we see today as the Middle East, and in Gandhi it's India and Pakistan. There's intense conflict to mine here, and we see a lot of turmoil in the second half of the film on this level. I also found it remarkable, and the scene itself heartbreaking, that the film's first half ends right at the Intermission point of a gigantic tragedy: the slaughter of over a thousand Indian people by British Colonialists (many women and children). Normally the first half of a film will end on a high note (just the year before in Reds it's at the point where Russia gets its revolution and lovers reunite for good, for example). Here, it's somber, and it sets up the tremendous stakes in the second half for this man.What didn't totally connect with me though were those parts around Gandhi, on an emotional level. Kingsley is so good here, and there's a decent performance usually around the corner (Martin Sheen, Candace Bergen), but I wish there was just a little more about the man himself, on a personal level, than we see here. Sure, there is a really intense moment early on where Gandhi and his wife get into an argument - he almost throws her out of the house until she yells sense into him and he realizes what he's doing - and while I naturally didn't expect more of that, I was hoping to see just a little more of Gandhi as the man, on a personal level, than just as his cultural accomplishments. This is not to decry the film too much, but it just lacked a certain something to the pathos overall that kept it from being great.Of course there's exceptions to this - a scene where a hunger-stricken (near death really) Mahatma has to tell a man who thinks he's going to hell for killing someone what to do is awe-inspiring, especially how Kingsley is on such a low-energy level - but it's really about the sweep and scope of this story that makes Gandhi the film it is. If that's fine for you, have at it. Those looking to see the many flaws that have been pointed out about the man in certain history books (or in the negative/less satisfied comments on IMDb) may not get that. It's a big Oscar-winning biopic, and it does what it does - thankfully there's a performance at the center that is truly great and spectacular, and often for how Kingsley isn't giving big, manic speeches. He's often just talking softly, calmly in a meeting or a courtroom or starving, and it's just... wow.


                
Winner of 8 Academy Awards including best picture, Gandhi is a masterwork of astounding production, both in scope & ambition, that brings on screen the extraordinary life story of its titular character whose non-violent, non-cooperative protests sparked a revolution that eventually brought India its independence from British rule, and has continued to influence various leaders & political movements around the world ever since.Bookended by his assassination & subsequent funeral in 1948, the story of Gandhi begins in South Africa in 1893 where, after being thrown off the train for being a person of colour, Mohandas K Gandhi initiates a non-violent protest campaign for the rights of all Indians in the country and eventually secures a victory. The plot then covers his journey in India where he launches an unprecedented movement that inspires millions of citizens to join the fight for India's independence from British Empire.Produced & directed by Richard Attenborough, Gandhi is undoubtedly the finest work of his directional career for the story is extensively researched and is crafted with meticulous care & attention to detail plus its subject matter is treated with utmost respect. It's no doubt a very ambitious project but Attenborough manages to make it all work quite well, and while the picture isn't flawless by any means, it certainly does justice to its larger-than-life character who's brought to life through an equally transcending performance.Production design team deserves kudos for the set pieces & locations evoke an authentic feel of rural India. John Briley's script attempts to dig deeper into Gandhi's philosophy of life, many of which are interesting, plus the decision on what segment to include & what to leave out from the picture are wisely chosen. Camera-work is steadily carried out, its 191 minutes of runtime may seem daunting at first but it never bothers once the movie begins, and Ravi Shankar's score is firmly rooted in Indian heritage but it also ends up distracting on few occasions.Coming to the performances, Gandhi features a highly impressive cast filled with renowned character actors from both British & Indian film industry and if you pay close attention, you can also find Daniel Day-Lewis in here. However, the supporting performances are passable at best for those actors don't have much to contribute & make fine use of their limited screen time. But the best part about Gandhi is Ben Kingsley's outstanding performance in the title role and whether it's the looks, mannerisms, physical deterioration or humbleness, Kingsley absolutely nails it.On an overall scale, Gandhi is an epic biopic that paints a riveting portrait of an ordinary lawyer who stood up against crime, injustice & discrimination all his life and later became the preeminent leader of India's independence movement against the British rule. An essential cinema chronicling the life of one of the most prominent & inspiring figures to have ever lived, brought to life by Richard Attenborough in a very disciplined manner, and further elevated to a whole new level by Ben Kingsley's exceptional performance, Gandhi comes highly recommended to every film lover & history aficionado out there.


                
Richard Attenborough had long cherished the ambition of making a film about Mahatma Gandhi, an ambition dating back at least to the early sixties, and eventually got to realise his dream some twenty years later. The film does not cover Gandhi's early life but opens with his assassination by the Hindu fanatic Nathuram Godse and then jumps backwards to what was to become a defining episode in his life, the time in 1893 when he was thrown out of a first-class carriage in Natal, despite having a first-class ticket, something which opened his eyes to the reality of racial discrimination. The film then deals with his fight for the rights of Indians in what were then the British Crown Colonies of the Cape Colony and Natal. (The film gives the rather misleading impression that South Africa already existed as a united nation in the 1890s; in fact it did not become a single Dominion until 1910). Even after his return to India, Gandhi's political ambitions were still rather limited; he initially fought for greater rights for Indians within the British Empire, and even supported the British war effort in 1914-18. Gradually, however, he became concerted to the idea of full Indian independence, and the film chronicles his struggle to achieve this through a policy of non-violent non-cooperation. A key event in the evolution of his political thought appears to have been the Amritsar massacre of 1919 when over 300 protesters were shot dead in cold blood by troops under the command of General Dyer. In some respects the film raises more questions than it answers. It does not explain why Indians who had been so keen to adopt Gandhi's strategy of non-violence during the independence struggle could not find a non- violent solution to the disputes between Hindus and Muslims. (Several hundred thousand people died in sectarian violence during Partition). Nor does it explore the motivation of (or even acknowledge the existence of) those Indian nationalists who rejected non-violence, such as Subhas Chandra Bhose's pro-Axis Indian National Army. Nor does Attenborough really tackle philosophical objections to non-violence, such as George Orwell's celebrated dictum that those who abjure violence can only do so because others are committing violence on their behalf. Gandhi's attitude to Nazism during the war struck many Britons, even those who were otherwise sympathetic to the Indian cause, as being at best naive, at worst ambivalent. Pakistanis might well take exception to the rather negative portrayal of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of their country. These, however, are not really criticisms of the film as a film. Yes, it is rather too hagiographic for my tastes, but then it is Richard Attenborough's film, not mine, and he had the right to show the world Gandhi as he saw him. As he himself put it "No man's life can be encompassed in one telling", honestly admitting that, like all biopics, this is an edited version of the life of its subject, deliberately edited to produce a coherent view of a man's life as seen from a particular viewpoint. And it must be admitted that Attenborough carries out his task with great skill. He was lucky to find the right actor for the job in the shape of Ben Kingsley who accepts a difficult challenge and makes this into the role of a lifetime. Kingsley's Gandhi dominates the screen, a man who combines great humanity with great strength of will, who manages to be both simple and profound. The role won Kingsley a well-deserved "Best Actor" Oscar and launched him on a stellar career. None of the rest of the cast can compete with Kingsley, although there are several cameos by the great and the good of British cinema such as John Mills, John Gielgud and Trevor Howard. Perhaps the best of these comes from Edward Fox as the cold, heartless Dyer. I was less impressed by Gandhi's various British and American acolytes, who play a surprisingly large part in the film, as if to suggest that Indian independence could not have been won without the support of white liberals. Ian Charleson, last seen as Eric Liddell in "Chariots of Fire", here appears as another man of the cloth, the Revd Charles Freer Andrews. There are also bit-parts for Candice Bergen and Martin Sheen, as if to suggest that all those Oscars could not have been won by a British film without at least a token contribution from some Hollywood Big Names. I am aware that "Gandhi's" Best Picture award is controversial among the militant wing of the Spielbergista movement, who resent it for depriving "ET" of the supreme honour, but I will reserve my comments on that particular controversy as I have not seen Spielberg's film since the eighties. (My own vote for "Best Film of 1982" would have gone to "Blade Runner", but we must remember that at the time the Academy only had available to them the original cut, not Ridley Scott's later director's cut). I will only say that, whatever one's view of Gandhi himself, there can be no denying that it is a superbly made film. It could perhaps have done with some discreet cutting to reduce its length by about 20 minutes, but it is nevertheless a monumental work. Some moments, particularly Gandhi's funeral and the heart-stopping recreation of the Amritsar Massacre, achieve a truly epic status. Following the success of "Chariots of Fire" the previous year, Attenborough confirmed the truth of Colin Welland's cry, "The British are coming!" Had the Academy not unaccountably preferred "Terms of Endearment" to "Educating Rita" in 1983, we would have made it a hat-trick. 8/10


                
This film tells the biography of Mahatma Gandhi, an attorney-turned famed rebel leader in India, who led the Indian people against the British rule through his philosophy of nonviolent protest. Ben Kingsley beautifully portrayed Gandhi, depicting the leader's sacrifice, understanding of life and peace, freedom and philosophies.John Briley did a detailed and great job on the script, depicting Gandhi's life with much elaboration. Ronnie Taylor and Billy Williams did a nice job on the cinematography, capturing the elements and aspects of British-ruled India during that time.I first watched this film in a high school English class and remembered that the entire class was inspired by the message that the movie gave and was in awe at the acting and the brilliance of the overall direction Richard Attenborough gave the movie.There are quite a bit of disturbing scenes as well, as the movie deals with political unrest, civil disobedience, hunger strikes and massacre, so definitely not a movie for everybody. But, it's a nice piece of cinematic work with a great historical background.Grade B


                
Ben Kingsly plays real life Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi in one of the best performances in screen history, richly deserving his best actor Academy Award, and the film itself won Best Picture, with Richard Attenborough winning best director.Film details how Gandhi went from a young lawyer who leads the campaign for Indian rights in British ruled South Africa after he is shamefully thrown off a train because he wasn't allowed to travel first class(despite his ticket). Later, Gandhi becomes a national hero and leader who calls for India's independence from Great Britain, but who does so by strictly non-violent protest, which amazingly does work for them, since they gain world sympathy due to favorable press coverage. Independence doesn't come without cost, since the divide between Muslims and Hindus is too great, resulting in the formation of Pakistan, and later Gandhi's assassination...Long film is made compelling because of Ben Kingsly's superlative portrayal, and epic sized story telling.


                
It is almost always men of peace that end up assassinated and tyrants seem to live on and on. That's a point in this rather long Biography since the opening and ending scenes are the martyrdom of the great Mahatma.As a film it is dominated by Ben Kingsley's performance and everything else pales in comparison. He carries the movie on his bare, bent shoulders and the extraneous is left unexplored to a large degree. There is no motivation, if they had any, for British enslavement except the obvious that, if they could, they would have the whole world under their Empire. Both the politicians and the soldiers are without any sympathy and have nothing but contempt for their subjects.So we see it all from Gandhi's perspective and it is a brave, noble, self-sacrificing, unselfish view. He did make a difference. The irony is that the Muslim-Hindu clash was as devastating as the British control. However, at least this indigenous Indian problem was homegrown and not forcibly fostered on the citizens by a foreign occupation.As a movie it is maybe a bit too long and given its length could have tried to interject more depth to the Nation's overwhelming problems, but the film is about a man and for that it succeeds in its endearing attempt to portray the little man with the big ideas quite receptively.


                
Gandhi was a great movie. It was meant to be during his time that there would be someone like him. That's how it was meant to be. It just goes to show the universal theme, everyone in India rises together and focuses on getting the British out. Once the British are out, then their focus goes to how much they hate each other, the Muslims hating the HIndu's, the Hindu's hating the Muslims as then a Civil War starts to break out. Then let's say those problems get eradicated, then they would focus on which water is better to drink, Dasani or Aquafina and they would have a war over that. That's why those Miller Lite commercials were always so good, where one group of people would say 'Tastes Great' and the other group of people would disagree and say 'Less Filling' and both groups would start an argument chanting their belief, their belief in beer!! . It was, ironically, a very thought provoking metaphor saying 'We all like the freaking beer, but there will always be something to argue and fight about because we're human beings and that's what we do, we'll argue about which species of Cockroach is the prettiest and probably get in a war over that'. That's exactly what it was about in Gandhi, The Wind that Shakes the Barley and in everyday life pretty much. You can't beat everyday life, but Gandhi tried and in the end he did a lot of good, and he definitely went by what he knew in his heart, not what he saw. That was a lot of what he was saying and conveying too, 'Go by what you know in your heart because you can at least control that, if you can't control the rest of it.' Really great movie. Ben Kingsley gave one of the top 10 greatest performances of all time in Gandhi in my opinion. If you've never seen much of Kingsley's work, watch Gandhi first and then watch him in Sexy Beast.
If only the film was a little deeper, a little more complex, it could have been an all time great epic. As it is, it comes close. The pluses; the power of the story and the history, and Ben Kingsley's amazing performance, which, somehow, like Gandhi himself, is both modest and incredibly powerful. The minuses; many of the supporting characters are underdeveloped, sometimes to the point of caricature. Most of the 'villains' (the British, the leader of the Muslim separatist movement) are presented as one dimensional cartoons that Gandhi himself probably would have disapproved of as lacking compassion and understanding. Also, there's a feeling, despite it's 3+hour length, that we really never get to know Gandhi as a human being, not just a "great, historic figure". The best moments in the film are his moments of self-doubt and questioning, as well as his complex family life, but those are few and far between. Still, an epic telling of one of the most important, influential and inspiring people of the last 500 years.


                
Spanning from his days as a student in South Africa to his assassination in India, "Gandhi" recounts several events of the man's life. In South Africa, Gandhi (played terrifically by Ben Kingsley) fights against discrimination laws against Indians, but instructs his followers to fight non-violently. This will set a precedent for his return to India, where he travels the country, observes the state of the people, and takes on the discriminatory British laws one by one. Time and time again, the British authorities try to bring him down, but Gandhi continually growing support from his people make it harder to suppress his demands. However, when India's independence is increasingly becoming a reality, so is the fact that India could partition into two nations because of religious differences, something Gandhi fiercely opposes and has trouble trying to control.Of all the compliments and accolades that have gone to this movie, the most seem to be directed at Ben Kingsley, and for good reason. He is incredibly convincing as Gandhi, showing the great gravitas the man could hold when he was leading demonstrations of thousands. He also shows how committed Gandhi was to his views. Take, for example, the moment when a his friend Walker (Martin Sheen) comments to him, "You're an ambitious man," and Gandhi replies, "I hope not." His response, though not forceful, still hits an odd nerve, as you wonder how someone who wants equality for his people in such a segregated state could not consider himself "ambitious." And yet, that response makes the rest of his actions in the movie make that much more sense. Though he is deeply committed to equality (and later, independence), he also believes it's an inherent right, not something you're born without. It's kind of surprising that Kingsley's track record after this film has been rather erratic, although he did have good turns in "Schindler's List" and "Shutter Island."Director Richard Attenborough wastes as few details as possible about Gandhi's life (there's even a title card early in the picture that acknowledges that not all of his life could be compressed into one movie). This, for the most part, is a good choice, since you're allowed to gradually see and understand how Gandhi got India to break away from Great Britain, and, eventually, struggled to keep it one nation. For the first 140 minutes or so, the film is pretty well paced, although it's reverential attitude towards Gandhi did make me wonder if there was something more complex behind his character. The last 40 minutes, while they make the movie drag, do at least challenge Gandhi's notions, as he is forced to confront the fact that his intelligent speeches and periods of long fasting will not be enough to alleviate a long religious conflict between Muslims and Hindus (which lead to the creation of Pakistan). Notice how, when Gandhi claims to be a man of all faiths, a Hindu, not a Muslim, later assassinated him.Though I think some trimming of the time could have helped, this is nonetheless a good looking and well acted epic and also intelligently addresses some issues that still affect us today. Do tyrants always fall? Or are the people who stand against them bound to fall as well? For me, that seemed to be the question the film posed at the end.


                
