I've always been very picky about my anime. I don't mind watching most series, but I always hold myself back from really truly liking most of them -- I watch, say, Fullmetal Alchemist, and I get some visceral joy from it, I cry a little bit, but I wouldn't call it a favorite; I find Cowboy Bebop enjoyable, but I wouldn't ever watch it ten times.Monster blows everything I've ever seen out of the water.I stumbled upon the anime by accident. I had just finished watching Moribito -- which was one I truly liked because the characters didn't follow normal anime standards -- and was searching for something to follow up after that. I expected to be disappointed. Someone on a forum suggested Monster, so I looked it up and watched it.I kept expecting something to be horrible. But the show started, and the art was realistic for an anime--something I hadn't quite experienced before. The opening theme song wasn't some annoying pop song that grated on my ears and made me snicker. The characters were real. The background music always fit the scenes and was never overbearing. The language spoken was honest and like something I could hear on the street. Germany looked like Germany and not some twisted version of Japan. The story was compelling.I watched all 74 episodes expecting something, -anything- to go horribly wrong, waiting for it to fall into the tripe I had watched hundreds of other anime go into. But there was never fan service, no overly gory violence. Nothing like that.Monster is a masterpiece. You can truly connect with every character. You'll see a person on screen for, at most, five minutes, but they'll have more depth to them than the main protagonists of other anime. You'll feel overwhelming sorrow whenever someone is killed after only one episode. You'll decide that a certain person fits the title--"Monster"--only to decide a few moments later that no, someone else is a monster. And you'll even feel empathy for people you long to hate.This is one of the only anime to ever please this picky fan. It might not be for people wanting more action, but as someone sick of anime where all that happens are flashy fights, this was a more than welcome release. Give Monster a try--you'll probably find it worthwhile.


                
This is not typical anime, it is not even a series or a video, it is an experience I have gone through watching this piece of brilliance called Monster.I have been a huge fan of crime dramas of Martin Scorcese and thrillers of Alfred Hitchcock and totally enjoy movies that dive deep into human emotions such as 7even, Taxi Driver, V for Vendetta, Machinist, Schindler's List, American Beauty etc. For anyone out there with similar tastes, this is a must watch content. It is must watch because all those works that we have seen until now seem so little in terms of their emotional intensity before this masterpiece of a thriller.Unlike the title, there are no monsters in this series, well actually there is one, far more deadlier than the ones in our nightmares, monster created as a result of difference in the perception of what we see in society. No, we are not talking about psychopaths with extreme emotions that enjoy hurting people here, but normal human being that can see the difference between good and bad, light and darkness, life and death very clearly and thus obviously does not agree with the society. The whole series is about a monster created out of the extreme surroundings around him and the people he encounters during his life that either get obsessed with his thinking or want to kill him for how dangerous he is.Overall this series could be the best animated work as it would leave you with an everlasting feeling like it did on me. There has been an attempt to make a movie out of the plot and nothing seems to be happening, I wish it stayed that way. A story like this will be a disaster as a 2-3 hour movie, there is just too much good stuff in here that cannot be passed/cut-down to make a movie.For those who watched V for Vendetta, this work will seem relevant to the main theme of series. Be ready to spend some time (74 episodes) and make sure you do not give more than 1 day break between each episode as you could forget everything very fast. You should concentrate on everything in the episode as there are hundreds of characters that have a lot to do with the plot.


                
I recently watched the popular anime serial Death Note. In search for a similar dark and gritty tale of power and deceit, I stumbled upon this little pearl. Like Death Note it's an epic train ride of plot twists and philosophical visions on the worth of human life. It is about the young surgeon Dr. Tenma who finds himself in an awkward situation. Will he continue the operation on a little boy with a gun wound in the head, or will he save the mayor of the city, and also benefactor of his hospital, from the effects of a stroke? In all his fairness he makes the choice to save the boy. It is the beginning of a tremendous tragedy; his boss and father-in-law doesn't want him anymore, his wife dumps him, colleagues despise him, and he becomes the scapegoat for the hospital. And then something odd happens. The little boy and his twin sister disappear and all the people who meant to do harm are killed. Though everything points at Dr Tenma's direction, there is not enough evidence for prosecution. And from that point on starts the story of Dr Tenma's quest to find out what happened and who was behind the killings. He stumbles upon a terrifying discovery that will alter his life tremendously.I like this cleverly written show for its addictive storyline and emotionally tense scenes. You must be willing to accept the many ''fillers'' - episodes with as only goal to lengthen the story - but it's well worth too watch through them. Those of you who liked Death Note, please give this less famous show a try. In some ways I think Monster even surpasses Death Note by its themes and dark vision on humanity.


                
I've seen a lot of Animes and I have to say this is the best one in my opinion, a true masterpiece that goes beyond others. I liked Monster since its not a common Anime (japanese cartoon) since it doesn't evolve around supernatural abilities or Futeristic techs. The story is written in a way that make it feel very realistic. The realistic story also makes it a very scary story in a sense that the monsters in this story actually can exists, these are the real monsters we should be scared of.Don't let the fact that its anime scare you off. Even if its hard to watch at first you'll get used to it, the story makes up for it. The story is so compelling that once you get into it it's hard to stop watching. I don't want to spoil any of plot more than it questions a common moral "all human life is equal worth". The plot really gets you thinking.


                
Once I started reading this manga, I really couldn't stop. It's probably one of the most fascinating, complex and suspenseful stories I've ever read. The artist's grasp of facial expression is amazing. When I compare Monster to other manga I've read...well, for the most part, there is no comparison. Like another commenter said, there is no fanservice, no glorification of violence, pointless gags, characters with cutesy personality quirks, etc...everything seems genuine and real. There were moments that horrified me speechless and scenes that brought tears to my eyes, too. Monster is very moving, but also very disturbing...a powerful commentary on human nature.


                
Words alone are not enough to describe how much I love Monster, the show with the one-word title, but I will try my best. Monster is easily the greatest anime you've never heard of, a hospital drama that speedily shifts into a continuously captivating murder mystery/ suspense story. The basis behind Monster follows Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s philosophy that all lives are created equal, that nobody's better than anyone else, and this is why Dr. Kenzo Tenma, the protagonist of Monster, Germany's unbelievably brilliant surgeon, chose to save a wounded boy named Johan Liebert over the mayor himself. Tenma's entirely justified decision destroys his career and his reputation as Johan is revealed to be a psychotic criminal mastermind, and Tenma embarks on a years-long journey to murder the patient he healed, to slay the monster he resurrected.As the audience accompanies Dr. Tenma, Monster presents the most beautifully detailed scenery you'll ever see, from highlighting the dirty and run-down aspects of the red light district to emphasizing the constant and consistent downpour of the Ruhenheim rain. Monster also showcases a masterful soundtrack, perfectly complementing the anime's plot with laid-back melodies in moments of peace, suspenseful organ music in climatic sequences, and tragic piano pieces in Monster's most emotional scenes. The greatest exhibition of Monster's musical genius is the anime's main theme, beginning with bone-chilling Latin chanting before a flurry of drums dominate the rest. The main theme is simple yet ominous, a phenomenal way to introduce a phenomenal anime.Naoki Urasawa (the creator of Monster) is a renowned genius of the manga word with several notable pieces including the immortal 20th Century Boys, a sci-fi adventure/suspense story that epitomizes childhood nostalgia, overflows with drama, and is very, very close to Monster's legendary status. Monster, however, is Naoki Urasawa at his finest, an anime with unbelievable complexity in its plot (although it moves noticeably slow, it doesn't reveal everything at once, and the gut-wrenching twists are definitely worth the wait) and intensely realistic characters. In Dr. Tenma's quest, he encounters Inspector Lunge (an unrivaled detective determined to arrest Tenma for Johan's crimes), Anna Liebert/Nina Fortner (the exceptionally kind and easily likable sister of Johan with the same mission as Tenma), Dieter (the gifted soccer prodigy with a friendly and joyful personality), and my favorite character Grimmer (a ridiculously laid-back journalist/former spy with almost-superhuman strength). There's tons of depth in this show, to the point where a certain bodyguard/ hit-man (who only appears in three episodes) becomes among the most memorable Monster characters ever. The cast of characters in Monster is the best I've ever seen, with world- class acting and a ton of personality (with the exception of the severely socially stunted Inspector Lunge). Compared to the in-depth exploration of other characters, Monster doesn't venture into the main protagonist's character. Dr. Kenzo Tenma is the definitive Good Samaritan, the epitome of selflessness, a mysterious man of benevolence determined to accomplish his goal, and that's all Monster really needed to reveal about him.The Beast, the Demon, and the Devil. These are names used in referring to Johan Liebert, the titular Monster of the series. If Tenma is the epitome of goodness, then Johan is the epitome of evil, a charming blond-haired young man with pale blue eyes, a bland brown sweater, and a sadistic mind. Johan doesn't simply set the plot in motion; he is the plot. Monster is about discovering how that sadistic yet brilliant mind works and what molded Johan into a being of evil (the monster's motive is revealed in the final moments of the anime, something I had to re-watch to fully comprehend). With his exceptionally creepy monotone and the basis of who he is, Johan dominates every scene he's in, even when he's not talking. The man has a presence. In the show Monster, Johan is a sign of bad luck akin to a black cat; there's an unwritten rules that if a minor or major character looks at Johan's face, they are guaranteed to die (with a few exceptions). If you don't believe me, look at what happened to Martin, the aforementioned bodyguard/hit- man. In the episode "The Man Who Knew Too Much", Martin walked past Johan and, on that same night, he was shot in the chest and died. Some of the crimes Johan committed were done to maintain his secrecy (like the murder of Mr. Junkers or the psychological destruction of private eye Richard Braun) but most of the crimes were ones Johan executed because he felt like it, and all of them resulted in a self- contained enjoyment from the monster, only revealing a subtle (yet creepy) smile. Monster is filled with examples of the infamous mastermind's greatness, what I dubbed "Johan moments", but the most memorable example to me is in the episode "At the Edge of Darkness": after listening to the Red Hindenburg's past (which cements her as the most despicable character in an anime filled with them), Johan wordlessly orders her execution before leaving her apartment and calmly walking away with a balloon in hand and the subtle smile on his face. HBO is supposedly making a live-action version of this classic anime, but there will never be a villain like Johan Liebert and there will never be an anime like Monster.
Unbelievably perfect. This complex and beautiful storyline unfolds over 74 incredible episodes, untangling the deepest philosophies and the loveliest intricacies of human life with every carefully constructed character and scene. I have never watched an epic of this magnitude. The composition, score, production, dialogue, and plot all work beautifully together. Even as the series dips deeply into the life of virtually every single character (and there are a multitude of impeccable and vital characters - more than a dozen), the protagonist and the story are never lost. Every little detail has a place of importance throughout. The mystery of Monster is revealed in little tantalizing bits all along, allowing the viewer freedom from feeling overwhelmed at the end. Nothing is left unsatisfied or unturned, and everything ties together so neatly. Perverse and violent subject matter is balanced with episodes so loving and meaningful that you feel the impact of the real world - positively, viscerally, bone-chillingly - within every scene. I feel so honored to have watched this. I sincerely cannot recommend Monster enough. 10/10. Absolute perfection.


                
The only series that I have seen that I have enjoyed as much as this are Lost and Breaking Bad.I absolutely love this anime, it seems to touch on every single walk of life, both light and dark, it has made my cry on so many occasions, not necessarily out of sadness, but also because of the beauty in which it presents many parts of life.The only criticisms I would give is that the dialogue is not always worded in a realistic way, but this might be more to do with the translation from Japanese to English, and this was only a minor, minor problem to me.What I really like is that the main protagonist is so likable, and so many characters are met on his journey who are also likable and interesting.I also love the amount of travelling the characters do, which really gives the series a sense of adventure.I don't feel the pilot is a good representation of the whole show, so I would suggest watching at least 5 episodes before making a judgement, but even then it doesn't cover the scope of where this anime will take you.


                
when i stumbled upon this anime i thought it's going to follow the stereotypes of a typical anime. well, it doesn't. don't be fooled by the title. it's a representation of life- as real as it gets.it's so unique that it doesn't even follow the stereotypes of mysteries and thrillers. it's engaging, suspenseful, horrifying but not in the way most of the films or books of this genre are. never seeking shelter in the shadow of gore or violence it takes the viewer to the darkest corners of inhumanity and poses a serious question- what is a monster and how little or how much does it take to turn a human being into one?before i watched this anime i thought joker is the most sadistic villain of all time. in wikipedia i read- the Trickster remarks, "When super- villains want to scare each other, they tell Joker stories." after watching this anime i have come to realize that the stories of the antagonist of this series will make the joker tremble and shiver in utter fear. that's what he is- the embodiment of fear, manipulation and sadistic. he along with all the characters of this anime are so real and so well developed that nothing will ever contradict or seem out of reality. the narrative is phenomenal. it's historically accurate, emotionally subtle yet engulfing, morally challenging and as a viewing experience greatly entertaining. another thing i must point out- the voice acting is the best i have seen in anime by far.the only thing that's off putting about this series is its finale primarily because it doesn't offer enough closure. but even if u crave for closures in general, after watching this anime u will have to agree- masterpieces like this are better left open to interpretations.


                
I've always been a fan of intelligent animes. After watching numerous shows, including death note, physcho-pass, stein's gate, etc... I found monster. I was skeptical to watch at first, mainly due to the new/realistic animation (Which I now love), however after the first episode I was completely gripped by the show. This show is written to be incredibly tense and suspenseful. It's dark, gritty, and mature. Without a doubt, monster is the most mature anime series I've watched. It's also very emotional and realistic. Characters are we'll developed and their personalities differ from one another. In this way, many characters stand out. There are so many side characters, yet they all play important roles in the overall plot. The shows pacing is slow at time, but this allows for a build up of suspense and further exposition into the incredibly intricate plot. I'm not going to give away any spoilers, however I'd like to say that this anime has my favorite villain. He's incredibly intelligent, and has insight into the human psyche functions. Thus, the villain manipulates others as if they're chess pieces. If you haven't watched monster, watch it. Its by far the most worthwhile anime iv'e ever experienced.


                
Monster is mostly about the story and it sticks to each and every detail even the dialogs from its adoption of manga. The Plot and Script is so good it would be a bestseller in any format be it a book or a movie.While being a Japanese animation it differs from other works by being realistic. The characters, props , situation , location, the time period all makes it seem it can happen in real life. Nothing is over the top, no super powers or magic involved.The way story evolves and concludes is mind boggling. Most of the episodes leaves you in a cliff hanger making you want to watch one more so you know whats going to happen. The story never tries to push itself so at time it gets slow. But each arc builds itself up for great conclusion.Another great thing in this series are the characters and you will feel for them. They all are unique having there flaws making them real.Many people have a aversion for animation this one will break that as its not aimed for anime fans but for general public who enjoy crime/physiological/detective thrillers.


                
This anime is actually very special for me for some reason.


                
This is not even an anime, it is a masterpiece of storytelling. I apologize for writing a long review, but I'm sure it is worth reading, as well as Monster is worth watching.Imagine if ever Kieslowski(Trilogy of Colors) was alive and had the amazing idea of writing a show about how cruel and devoid of hope the world is. While writing it he instead discovered that, in fact, it is not. That the world is full of hope, even for the broken and engulfed by darkness. That everyday is new for us to live it. Not is simple in Monster. The show successfully tackles everything from racism to torture, manslaughter, child abuse, laws, crime, social welfare, ethics, economics and politics. Every single subject from human nature is amplified at the same rate that is made short for us to be able to understand, all with a subtle and gentle touch. If you ever feel bored during its 74 episodes, please do not give up, it seems you are watching fillers, but every single episode has its meaning to the overall arc and comes together really nice.Not to forget about incredible OST, opening and ending themes. When the ending theme sets in, you really can grasp what the show is about... David Sylvian's - For the love of life is the perfect song for the ultimate human experience that is watching and understanding Monster. That "...after all, that's what we are--nameless monsters."


                
This is one hell of a suspense anime. Too long? It has got so much story. People who think it's boring probably didn't understand it. Each episode (Except one which might be a filler... not sure though) has something big and important to do with the actual story.It seems like it has too many side stories but they're actually all related to the same thing. People should NOT compare this to Death Note. 'Death Note is Highly Overrated!'. It's an anime for those who are new to anime. Death Note's story isn't even a quarter of the story involved in Monster and yet people call it stretched. If you were to calculate, for the amount of story Monster has it should have 4 times the number of episodes that Death Note has but is got only twice as many. Which means there is absolutely no wastage of time.I honestly do not know whether they couldn't understand it or maybe not their type but those who consider this boring should give it another try and try to recall everything that's happened and how Dr. Kenzo Tenma actually caught up to Johan and did what he did.I admit the ending was OK. But this is one anime in which the ending is probably the least important contributing factor to the story.
Not going to go into detail like the other reviews since not many that hasn't watched the show reads them. Looking at the reviews in general, you'ld see that it's divided into 2 extremes. People that absolutely love it and people that don't appreciate good storytelling.The show is extremely slow but none of the episodes (well, maybe 3 were filler-like) were a waste of time. Anyone that thought 74 episodes had no plot progression doesn't understand the point of the journey.It's not a show for everyone, if you only seek andrenaline from action packed things or constant 'mind-games' like in death note, this probably isn't for you. If you only like things that give you 'the feels' or lovey-dovey romanctic films expecting a perfect ending, this isn't for you.
The operative words being 'only' and 'probably', not saying that everyone that watches those fall into the same catergory. (probably going to get backlash because many people only read what they like)There are minor plotholes or rather, things which are pretty unbelievable unless you have a pretty high suspension of disbelieve but if you look part those, it's a darn perfect thriller. That's about it.


                
I can't take the sadness why Monster series ever end....? Why....? I can't say anything to describe this ("I don't have any name" for the word) anime except I want to thank the team who created Monster anime and story! I cried missing those characters Tenma, Nina(My personal favorites: Tenma and Nina), Eva, Dieter, Grimmer(Late), Lunge, Dr.Gillen, Dr. Reichwein, Wolf, Franz, Mr Schubert and everyone who did there best to save humanity and, isn't it just we wanted......?!


                
This anime has surprised me in a lot of ways. When I first encountered it in my recommendation list, I thought it's just going to be another typical anime, but boy.. I was wrong!The premises is one that I find rather interesting. It's about repenting one self for something that you may have done done it intentionally. The questions on morality that are raised throughout the anime are extremely deep and there are a lot of characters whose perspective can make you question everything you thought up until one point.I would totally recommend this anime to all fans of suspense/ thriller and even if you don't like anime at all, you should still watch it because you will quickly forget the way it's wrapped in, you will be more hooked by the story itself.


                
After seeing a couple of negative reviews of Monster I decided to write a review to explain why this anime really is one of the best and discuss some of the criticisms.Like many, I was told that monster was an anime to watch if you loved death note. I absolutely adored death note so I decided to give it ago. I was terribly disappointing after several episodes. I was expecting a fast paced psychological thrill ride like Death Note. I can see why many people disliked Monster after seeing DN in this regard.I decided to revisit Monster with much lower expectations and I thoroughly enjoyed it, watching almost 10 episodes in a day. While death note may be fun to watch its no masterpiece that is of Monster. Monster builds one of the greatest stories in any medium. It dedicates time to introduce its characters but it pays off so much in the long run. Unlike death note, Monster is meticulously structured story that burns slowly but burns much brighter.I think monster is anime that is meant to be viewed in a different fashion compared to others. I would recommend watching several episodes in a row and when it slows down take a break. This is certainly an entertaining anime when viewed with no expectations


                
This Anime is by far one of the best I have ever seen and is my favorite show of all time. The plot twists are incredible because some of them you just would never see coming, character design is phenomenal because of the way characters are portrayed and what they make you feel. do you forgive them? do you hate them? Juxtaposition a major strength of the show is out right amazing because of the way it takes common ideas that you would think relate to being good and mixes them with evil. The themes in the show truly make you think, it asks you what is really a monster? What is a victim? Never before have I been so blown away by a TV show of any kind. Every episode had you thirsting for more, Johan was an incredible character so intriguing, the show in general is challenging as well the way it takes themes such as saving a life, helping and even childhood innocence and just flips them on their head. Naoki Urasawa truly outdid himself in this anime and deserves every single star and positive comment. I cannot recommend this show enough if you are a fan of all the serious anime's like Death Note and that, then this show is for you the plot is by far one of the best I have ever seen. If you are into mystery and a show that challenges your thoughts then this is the show for you.


                
This is a truly great anime with a great story set in the 1990's when the manga was created the protagonist Dr. Kenzo Tenma is a good doctor who believes very much in the Hippocratic oath unlike his bosses including the director Dr. Heinemann who are more concerned with prestige and appearances then saving lives.One day Dr. Tenma has a crisis of conscience when he is told to operate on the Mayor instead of a young boy whom only he can operate on and his superiors rebuff his request to give the Mayor's surgery to someone else but Kenzo chooses to disobey honoring his oath but the other doctors operate too late on the Mayor resulting in the Mayor's death.The arrogant and vindictive Heinemann demotes Kenzo and derails his career as much as he can and his fiancé who is the directors daughter breaks off with him. Kenzo is angry over this and wishes the man dead to the unconscious boy.Not long after the boy and his twin go missing and Heinemann and Dr. Boyer turn up dead. A new and somewhat more sympathetic administration takes over the hospital and Kenzo's career is back on track and years later it seems it's all behind him or so he thinks.When 9 years later the murders start happening Kenzo realizes they may be connected to the twins and resigns from the hospital to solve the mystery but one complication is he becomes a suspect.This is a great suspense thriller and I loved the main character Kenzo Tenma the animation is great and it has one hell of a gripping and suspenseful storyline.It shows how we can all have the ability to commit terrible crimes.
I had never been able to invest myself emotionally with anime characters until I stumbled upon this gem. Monster traveled at a slower pace and it not AS action packed as I expected. However, it was evident after the first five episodes that the anime never aimed to accomplish this as all. In fact, the anime picks up and tackles emotions and characters at a deeper level. The anime takes the predefined notions of right/wrong and good/evil and really challenges the protagonist (and the viewers) into accepting that sometimes, the decisions that we make based on these pre-defined moral norms can have devastating consequences.What really defines the series is a captivating story and outstanding character development. The viewers are really made to empathize with the characters as their lives are explored outside their relation to the protagonist and the main story arc.The story, set in the various cities of Germany and Czech Republic, really keeps you intrigued as it unfolds. The setting really adds to the mystery and there are some history lessons in there (as stated by another reviewer) which make things even more exciting. The anime does require a little bit of patience from the reviewer, but I assure you once the suspenseful sequences set in you will be glued to the screen.I strongly recommend this anime to anyone who enjoys psychological thrillers, or even just a good suspenseful story, to check it out. You don't have to be an anime fan to enjoy Monster! (Albeit watching it might just change your view on anime).I have never reviewed anything on the site before but the experience I had viewing Monster, warranted a review.I really hope you give this anime a shot and experience the brilliance of Naoki Urasawa! (Seriously how did he come up with this?!!) Also, Guillermo del Toro is planning a TV adaptation for this awesome series so there's another reason to watch this ASAP!


                
No spoilers I've seen many animes, and I must say, monster is now one my my favorites, if not the best anime I've ever seen.The story is very dark, well written, and ofc its 74 episodes long. Many people compare this to death note, but i would say this anime is wayyyyy better than death note. I like death note, but that anime is very childish.If you are an intelligent person, and someone who loves great story telling, and ofc, are willing to commit the time to watch this, I highly recommend it.This story is told realistically and is a blend of the TV show Dexter, and the video game Silent Hill. I would say this anime is almost like Silent hill, but better. as in, the story is very grim, and really sadIn summary, story is good, character development is wonderful, this anime could make 3 awesome movies, its very long = which is a plus for me, cause i ran out of "good" shows to watch, the story can get very confusing if you don't watch the episodes back to back, its a masterpiece, a wonderful anime, watch it
