"The Never-Ending Journey" (Name of Episode 56)I am not a hardcore anime fan, but I enjoy watching a "good" anime from time to time. Whatever "good" means, because monster is universally praised. I was very disappointed after watching it and regretted all the time I invested in this anime. My mistake, I trusted the hype and thought it must be worth it to "sit through".I just want to warn others about what to expect from this anime and I suggest to think twice before investing 1850 minutes / 30 hours of your life.The main problem with this show is that it is much (much) too long. I have no problem with long series, if the length is justified. I don't want to miss a single episode of Breaking Bad for example. The story of monster is not grand enough to fill 30 hours. Many (many) episodes will deal with uninteresting side stories and information about certain characters, which a) are not very interesting and b) are not relevant for the plot at all. Be ready to witness (repeated) childhood memories, shopping sprees (!) and our hero Dr. Tenma treating all kind of random people (broken leg here, gunshot there). You might hit the skip button for the first 3 - 4 minutes of each episode, because it will mostly just repeat the ending of the previous episode. A quick calculation reveals that the show has around 5 hours of repeated flashbacks. 5 hours equals a 12 episode season. Things would not be half as bad if all the information, the characters would play a significant role in the plot and especially in the end. But most of the characters seem to have the single purpose to simulate an epic scale of the story and Monster fails miserably to deliver on that note. After finishing the series I looked back and wondered, why was all that exposition needed, if so many questions were left unanswered. The only reason we get to know so much about certain characters is to fill 74 episodes. That is all. Be aware that many if not most of the plot details, which look interesting on first sight, will not be explained in full. Don't expect "monster" to make much sense in the end. Which leads to the next main problem:Ridden with annoying plot devices. To fill 74 episodes of this crime story the writers needed to make use of McGuffins and Deus Ex Machina plot devices to move the plot along. Suspension of disbelieve is required throughout the series. Coincidences play a big role in everything that happens. In the universe of monster it is completely natural that anybody you encounter will most likely be connected to the plot. It seems that everybody is a relative or a friend of a key character. The twists and turns become a boring routine.Monster was a huge and very long disappointment. And if you start watching and start feeling slightly bored around episode 20, do yourself a favor and stop, because it will get worse. You might end up like me: After watching 35 episodes you might feel obliged to "finish" it, just like a job you need to do.I think there was potential in the plot and without all the crap it could have been a solid crime story. The scenery was great and authentic and there were some interesting ideas and concepts in series. But most of the good aspects are buried under a huge pile of boring and unnecessary episodes. I assume there is a solid crime story hidden somewhere in the 74 episodes. But we will never know.Maybe this show was made for kids who don't bother as much as I do or maybe i don't appreciate anime as much as I thought. I don't remember having such problems with Neon Genesis Evangelion, Elfen Lied or Haibane Renmei though.The true mystery of Monster is why it is getting so much praise. "Monster" is just bad. True Detective tells a griping and epic crime story in 8 hours. Better watch it twice instead of Monster.


                
Absolutely terrible!! 74 episodes and essentially !zero! plot development and even less resolution. I will never return to IMDb for anime recommendations! I continued to watch with the hope that at the very end it would save face, but not even. I can wholeheartedly say that the ending of this show was a greater disappointment than their inability to develop a storyline as great as this. How they managed to f**k up a story as potentially intense and dark as the one presented in the description is beyond me. As one fan of anime to another, !!do not waste your time on this show!! Go watch Gurren Lagan, Full Metal Alchemist, DeathNote, Darker than Black, Hunter X Hunter, Kill la Kill, Star Driver...those are worthy of the 9 stars this piece of sh*t was given.


                
There are 74 episodes in this show. Was it required? No. After watching the first few episodes I was of the opinion that this may turn out to be the best anime ever and maybe there was a realistic chance that all the HYPE was real. With that in mind, I continued and somehow managed to watch episode 10 - 39 which focused on introducing new characters and give some background story to them. The pace had fallen drastically by then, the story became highly repetitive to the point that one could predict what was going to happen next, I thought of giving up since there were 30+ episodes to go, but then I read reviews where reviewers asked users to stay with the show, to have patience and continue because, in the end, it was all going to be worth it. Fast forward to episode 73, there is this perfect setup for an ending which may have made this show worth it. Imagine every important character of this show assembled in one small remote town. We had Dr. Tenma who was waiting to kill Johan, we had Johan himself with his plan of a perfect ending, there was Roberto the villain who does not die easy, there is Inspector Lunge from BKA, there is Nina, there is Grimmer and finally there is the mastermind, the devil himself who started it all Franz Bonaparte all of them at one place, on a rainy day making it for a perfect gloomy settings fit for a monster to unleash his evil plan. Yes, the setting was that good and then it happens, the beginning of the end, Johan gets shot.NO not by Tenma, not by Grimmer, not by Nina and NO not even by Bonaparte. Johan gets shot by the town alcoholic who had no story, no background, no connection to the story, nothing and he shoots the Monster. It was disappointing to the core, it was disgusting and unbelievable. What was the point, was that the masterstroke? Next, we see Johan in a life and death situation, he is in critical condition and it would have been impossible to save him unless an expert neurosurgeon like Dr. Tenma operated on Johan and saved him. Imagine that.Imagine a guy who spent all his life chasing the Monster, to kill him, to end him and to never let anyone else die at the hands of this evil Monster, imagine asking him to operate on this monster and save him. Seems like a joke, but it happens, Dr. Tenma ends up ultimately saving the monster. Yes, Dr. Tenma operates and saves Johan's life as he did many years back. What was the point of the whole story then? What was the point of the journey for Tenma? What changed? What did the story accomplish from Episode 1 till Episode 74? The Monster gets to live and he escapes from the hospital never to be found again. Was this the ending that many thought to be a Masterpiece? There was just no point for Dr. Tenma to begin his journey, should have just settled down with Ava and had kids instead. The entire series should have been 20 episodes maximum if this was how they were planning to end it.74 episodes are too much for this series. Usually, any good show stays with the audience for some time once it is over. Can't say that about this one though.
