This first entirely computer animated film by Disney is a pretty good effort, but the film seems lacks that extra something, that makes it good. The action, which does not seem to stop is <U+0091>only' pretty thrilling and the film overall is <U+0091>only' kind of funny (I didn't burst out with laughter once). Therefore this film can not achieve the rating good (8 out of 10) by me, for a good film (in my opinion) is good on more than just one or two levels and it has to cover the entire film (preferably exceeding in more than one genre). Nonetheless this is (again) no disappointment by Disney.
7 out of 10 (an average rating for a Disney animated feature)


                
With the ever increasing proximity of Toy Story 3, I decided it was about time for me to revisit the original and its first sequel to refresh my memory. Having been among the original target audience, it's a real trip back to childhood.The longtime favourite toy of young Andy, Woody is disgruntled to be pushed aside in favour of a new space-ranger action figure in the form of Buzz Lightyear. Admired by child and fellow toys alike, Buzz threatens Woody's territory, prompting an effort to remove him which results in the two being left many miles from home, with little time to get back before the family's move.Now regarded fondly as one of the best kids' movies of all time, Toy Story was the catalyst which allowed Pixar to rapidly ascend to the throne of animation where they dominantly remain to this day. Certainly it wowed me when I first saw it, almost fifteen years ago now. Indulging every child's fantasy that their toys come to life when they're not looking, we find ourselves instantly aligned with the host of strange characters. The quality of the animation, revolutionary for its time, is seen instantly, proudly boasted in the movements of the soldiers as they march downstairs. Everything looks completely realistic and, most importantly, believable. Whilst amusing beforehand, the laughs only really start to build up when Buzz arrives and we are treated to his interactions with Woody, the disagreements between the two and their petty arguments forming the basis of the film's funny factor. The added maturity of years affords the understanding of some of the film's more adult jokes, adding a little something extra to the experience for returning viewers. The action-adventure side of the plot keeps up the drama, tension, and sense of doom, keeping us wondering whether or not the reluctant duo will ever make it back in time. The scenes in Sid's house are the film's best, in terms of keeping up suspense. Their oddness is stand-out and ever memorable, the stranger toys therein encountered doubtlessly having haunted many little 'uns over the years. Certainly still enjoyable, Toy Story remains an inherently good film, though for me it stands less high than the likes of Wall-E, lacking the considerable emotional impact of that later Pixar effort.Carrying a vast legacy, Toy Story stands the test of time well, still as enjoyable as ever it was. Having paved the way for films which, as you would hope, took what it did and did them better, it is enduring, endearing, and thoroughly entertaining.


                
Rollicking, entertaining adventure. Good fun, with some great humour, exciting action and some decent drama and emotional content.Great CGI. Nothing to fault about the special effects and animation.Voices are spot-on. Great casting.


                
In many ways Toy Story is just as big of a film as Snow White, or My Neighbor Totoro. It is the first of its kind, really. The very first feature-length computer-animated film and the founding stone of Pixar Studios. And quite like Snow White, it is still a marvelous film. With certain, minor caveats.First the praise. The story is still incredible. It has to be for the film to have withstood the test of time so well. It is about toys coming to life when humans are away at least partly because toys were much easier to animate than real humans (the humans in this film look scary, by the way), but great storytelling is often inspired by limitations. And that certainly applies here. Through simple childhood toys we explore the concepts of growing up, learning new things, meeting new people, dealing with failed expectations, fear of loss, abandonment and betrayal, letting go of things, and most importantly, about friendship and family. And it's all told through a fetching, relatable and kid-friendly narrative.The characters are also a lot of fun, though as a kid I never realized what a jerk Woody (Tom Hanks) really is. Sure, that's his point, but I always though that the cowboy had something of a point. Perhaps kids see these things differently. And nevertheless, the idea that Woody was in the wrong was clear even back then.Unfortunately what hasn't aged so well is the animation. The humans look terrible, yes, but that was clear even in 1995. But the toys were phenomenal back then. Mindblowing, quite frankly. Less so today. The movement is still really smooth and the designs are interesting, but it all looks so plasticky. The movie works around that admirably - most of the characters are made of plastic, after all - but it still leaves the movie looking flat and lifeless even when it's not supposed to look like it. I've heard it said that early hand-drawn animation looks charmingly simple, whereas early computer-animation simply looks cheap. And there's some truth to that, I'm afraid to tell.Still, Toy Story is a classic. Not my favourite Pixar film by far, but it did start something quite wonderful.


                
It's only now, fifteen years after its release, that I decided to give TOY STORY a look on my large flat screen TV. I've never been a fan of computer animation per se, but this charming story has heart and wit and enough entertainment value for both young and old. The toy characters are both appealing and very funny in ways that anyone can appreciate, thanks to a clever script.Woody the Cowboy and Buzz Lightyear compete for the affections of a small boy, Andy, whose playroom is loaded with toys that come alive whenever anyone leaves the bedroom. Out of this fresh idea, the plot bounces along with supreme confidence as it races forward putting all of them in constant danger from their ever changing environment, especially when they leave the confines of Andy's home.Technically, the film is a marvel--everything simulated through computer wizardry, all of it invented with taste for artistry evident in every frame of the film--the kind of artistry that the Walt Disney studio demonstrated during the heyday of their cartoon wizardry.The brilliant colors look even more amazing in the good print of the film that aired on cable tonight. Well worth watching for pure family entertainment, a rarity nowadays.


                
Cleverly crafted Disney production has plenty to laugh at for both younger and more mature audiences. The innovative idea creates a world in which children's toys come to life in their own universe; the bedroom.While the animation is not exactly state of the art any more, the pic benefits from some jovial, whole-hearted performances. Especially of note is the irrepressible Tom hanks as Woody, Andy's favourite toy (until now), and Tim Allen, hilariously deadpan as space ranger Buzz Lightyear, the new guy in town.The comedy stays fresh and lively throughout while there is always something happening to keep little eyes tuned. Infinitely watchable, as Disney often is.Tuesday, December 1, 1998 - Video
The toys in Andy's bedroom are worried when he gets a new Buzz Lightyear Space Ranger for his birthday. Sheriff Woody is jealous, but when he knocks Buzz out of the window by accident, he must face the outside world and go rescue him.Toy Story is a World's First movie. The use of computer-generated animation had been pioneered in other films (Tron, The Last Starfighter, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, etc) and had been used extensively in short films (such as Lasseter's classic Luxo Jr., the origin of the Pixar company desklamp logo), but Toy Story is the original computer-rendered animation movie and its visual dynamics are simply stunning. In particular, the generation of movement through the frame (such as the point-of-view shot of Andy running up the stairs) and the ability to perfectly map any number of light sources to the motion of objects are amazing techniques previously unheard of in standard cell-painted animation. Lasseter and his incredible crew of artists have created an animation world which can duplicate almost anything a three-dimensional live-action movie could. It's an incredible achievement. Much more importantly however, it's a great movie - funny, scary, jam-packed full of great characters, and a terrific story. It has two ideas that are just brilliant; firstly, the central conceit of the toys coming to life, and secondly, Buzz struggling to come to terms with his identity. It kinda reminds me of a kids version of Robocop; on the one hand it's a goofy adventure story but on the other it's really almost a philosophical fable about a guy facing the meaninglessness of existence ! I also love the sheer variety of the toys, both visually and character-wise; as well as Andy's toys, Sid's monstrous hybrids are fabulous and the wacko three-eye greenies are hilarious ("Nirvana is coming ! The mystic portal awaits !!"). The voice cast are terrific, particularly Allen, Shawn and Ermey, and the movie sounds just as good as it looks, with excellent sound design by Gary Rydstrom. My one complaint is Randy Newman's song score, which is okay, but I'm afraid his laid-back LA showtunes style grates with me, and does he really need six credits for it ? Anyway, this is a great movie for everybody, kids and adults alike, and a genuine pleasure to watch. See if you can catch the shot they stole from Close Encounters Of The Third Kind.
Look ik this movie is one of the best franchises yes i love the toy story franchise but...they should have added more situations and action scenes in this movie althou this is a good movie dont get me wrong, and this has good moral lessons but the movie should have been longer so yeah....but this was entertaining too so...yeah


                
The animation may have aged mediocre, but the movie itself is good. Good plot, great soundtrack, and nice acting. 7/10


                
I don't see why people say it's the best Pixar movie. IT IS NOT (that would go to Incredibles 2, then Incredibles). So overrated. If you want to see a good movie, and you want the kids to stay entertained, then watch Vertigo or North by Northwest.


                
In a world in which toys talk and move whenever humans are not looking, a cowboy doll experiences jealousy for the very first time after an action figure replaces him as his owner's favourite toy in this popular animated comedy. The premise lends itself to a number of perplexing unanswered questions (in particular, regarding the 'rules' that the toys follow to freeze as soon as there is the possibility of a human seeing them move) but if one accepts the basic notion and runs with it, the film offers a surprisingly compelling story with striking personal identity themes as both of the main toys come to realise that they are not as special as they once thought. For Woody, it comes with realising that his owner can have other favourite toys and for Buzz it comes from awakening to the fact that he actually is a toy and not the famous space commander that he is designed as being. The film is blessed by excellent animation effects too; while many entirely computer generated animated films have come out in the years since, few have used the process quite so delightfully with lots of mobile tracking and panning shots that would have been near impossible to get right in a live action feature. The changing facial reactions on the toys (especially Woody) are impressive too - even if the fact that the toys in the film look more realistic than the humans in the film never quite feels right. This is, of course, a film about the toys though, and fanciful as the premise may well be, there is a lot to like about their loyalty both towards their owners and each other.


                
I watched Toy story when I was little and it was my favorite childhood movie and I really love it because it made me think a lot and when I was little I used to tip toe up the steps and down the hall and peek into my room to see if my toys were moving but they never were but I just thought they were really good and I used to talk to them all the time about my life which you will most likely think I'm weird because I talked to my toys but I talked to my dog to and you want to know why well because I love to talked and everybody was annoyed so I just talked to my stuff. But this is off subject so basically to some this up I love this movie and you should watch it and you should spread it even know everybody has most likely already watched it so you should watch it too.


                
When I saw clips of this film in advertisements, I thought this was a film featuring real life toys moving in stop-motion. It was not until I watched the film in VHS that I found out that the film uses CGI. Although traditionally animated movies were still popular upon Toy Story's release, moviegoers slowly began shifting to computer animated media. A few years after the year 2000 is when the general public began favoring CGI films a lot more.Personally, I still like traditional animated films because they provide a more storybook-like picture. Computer animated films are indeed more complex although they make film look more like video game rather than a movie.As for the film here, the acting is well done and the plot is as good as any high class film.


                
"Toy Story" was, as known, the first movie of Pixar that should "conquest" the world after Disney's hand-drawn films were consider as mediocre. Except "Finding Nemo" and "Cars", "Toy Story" is the best of all the Pixar films (here comes a little SPOILER; this movie is not presented with the Pixar logo at the beginning of the film, before the title credits. SPOILERS OVER). It's like some TV-series; the first seasons are sometimes the best, right?Anyway, I watch "Toy Story" for the first time when I was 11 and I enjoyed it. It's never been my favorite movie of all times, but it's a enjoyable and watchable movie. The animation is gorgeous, the story is simple, but well-defined and the script is good. It's a good idea to make a CGI computer animated movie about toys that comes alive (SPOILERS; when the humans aren't watching. SPOILERS OVER).This film has some more adult humor comparing to the Disney hand-drawn films before 1995, which is quite good. (SPOILER) Most of the characters are simple and well-defined, except the sarcastic Hamm and Mr. Potato Head (not that I dislike them, but they deliver a more sophisticated humor than the rest of the characters). Woody is a more human main character, who makes really big mistakes in the movie, but learn what's wrong and what's right. My favorite characters were Buzz (I absolutely love his lines), Slinky (who stand up for Woody more than he deserves) and Scud, Sid's dog, who definitely should be in the sequel. (SPOILERS OVER).This movie has some scenes that could may be considered a little spooky for the youngest children, but for those who are 8 years old and upward, it's a suitable movie What I didn't like in this film is the score of Randy Newman, who is actually very annoying and too sugary for me. Unfortenaly he became the composer of most of the Pixar's film. But the songs in "Toy Story" are working quite all right. Not that they are so memorable, but they don't destroy the movie.So "Toy Story" it's a funny and enjoyable movie worth watching.


                
I did like the movie. But there was something I just didn't enjoy. I'm not really into Pixar. And I think that computer effects are a little annoying. I don't mind them when they are needed. But when it's for a full movie, I get annnoyed. But I do give it credit. I did laugh a few times.7/10


                
It's a charming movie about friendship and getting along, but it's far from perfect. I still recommend it, though


                
Toy Story is a good movie. The main characters are Woody the cowboy and Buzz Light-year the space ranger. This movie has a lot of excitement and is a great movie to watch for people of all ages. Tom Hanks does an excellent job with Woody's character and Tim Allen is a real good Buzz. The animators of toy story do a super job with all of the characters and make the movies a pleasant see. In my younger days I used to wonder if toys could really talk. This movie brings out that imagination to life and creates a magical world in which toys are alive. This movie does a really good job in exploring the fantasy and imagination of children and their toys. All of the characters fit really well and this movie should be a classic for many years to come. I particularly like the Neighbors kid with the other toys. I like how the movie shows the difference between Andy and his toys and the neighbor's boy with his. Everything about this movie is entertaining.


                
Think of momentous years in Hollywood's history like 1927 (the year of the first talkie), 1932 (the first use of three-colour technicolor), 1935 (the first feature in full colour), and 1937 (the first animated feature).  I kept telling myself, in 1995, that I was witnessing something equally ground-breaking and historically important.  And who knows, maybe I was. The four historic films I alluded to above were `The Jazz Singer', `Flowers and Trees', `Becky Sharp' and `Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs', only the last of which has any claim to being a classic.  `Toy Story' has no great claim, either.  In retrospect it was nothing new, just another instance of Hollywood's current infatuation with computer-generated images: pleasant, light and unremarkable.Computer animation is really a soulless device and, although I found it enjoyable, this is a soulless movie.  To begin with the animation wasn't quite ripe.  Toys, I suppose, are easy to animate: but when the flesh-and-blood children start to look as if they're also made of plastic, when the whole world seems to be made of plastic, the eye longs in vain for something else.Perhaps including children at all was a mistake.  A Hans Andersen toy story, a story that concerned toys and only toys, would have been more fun (and more moving).  The film betrays itself when it starts to think of the children.  The two central characters, after all, are BAD toys - horribly gimmicky devices that children very sensibly lose interest in after not so sensibly getting their parents to buy them some other worthless gimcrack. When Woody gave his speech about how important they really were in servicing a child's dreams and wishes and whatnot ... did anyone really fall for it? It would have been much more honest if he'd said, every toy for himself, kids be damned.I'm sorry if I sound overly critical - as I said, I liked it, so for me at least the slightly sour taste wasn't strong enough to ruin the film.  John Lasseter deserves credit for taking a formulaic buddy tale and breathing genuine life into it.  (All the more credit with a medium as unyielding as computer animation.)  `Toy Story' is pleasant and fun.  But frankly, every single traditionally animated film Disney has made from 1989 on, with the possible exception of `The Hunchback of Notre Dame', is better.  And - sorry to close with a carp - did Randy Newman really have to break into song so often?  Wasn't it enough for him to write the score, without croaking his songs out over it?


                
This film is considered as the best animated film ever made and maybe when it was just released it was but in My opinion it has not aged very well. It is boring, the animation for the humans is off and I don't like the main character (Woody). It is still a good movie and is entertaining but the sequel is where it gets great.


                
The movie Toy Story is an animated film about the life of toys and their struggle to be kept by children. The story starts with a child named Andy whose favorite toy is a cowboy sheriff named, Woody (voice by Tom Hanks), and their inseparable bond. For years, Woody is Andy's number one toy, until one birthday Andy is given a new play pal, Buzz Lightyear, (voice by Tim Allen). Immediately, Woody is aware that Buzz is taking his place as the favorite toy and becomes jealous. Woody's plan to get rid of Buzz eventually leads to the both of them being far away from home and in the hands of Sid, the child toy terrorizer who lives next door. In the end, the two work together and make it back to Andy's house. Woody realizes that he will not always be Andy's favorite and becomes friends with Buzz. The overall theme of the film is accepting change and understand that sometimes it is a good thing. Woody was so worried about being replaced that he did not see a good person (toy rather) in Buzz. The next-door neighbor kid, Sid, also learned a valuable lesson in this film. He spent all of his time torturing and destroying toys as a way of having fun, but finally got what was coming to him when he seen that toys come to life. Another teachable moment was with Mr. Potato Head; one of Andy's toys, and his trust issues with Woody. Throughout the film, Mr. Potato Head constantly lacked faith in Woody and always gave a negative comment about what Woody wanted to do. Once Woody and Buzz teamed up, the other toys and Mr. Potato Head were convinced that Woody was right. Out of everyone, Buzz learned the biggest lesson; never give up on your dreams. Buzz did not comprehend that he was not really a space ranger and could not r fly. When Woody told Buzz that he was just a toy, Buzz did not believe it until he saw the commercial. Yet, he still got to ride his rocket and fly through the skies. Watching Toy Story and all of the messages that it displayed reminded me of one of my favorite films Dead Presidents. Everyone is going through the same journey, but have a different perspective on the situation. All of the characters have a diverse outcome of the lesson and they take an important life learning experience with them. The film was strictly a kid's movie, so the lighting was very bright and colorful. This worked well with the theme, because what easily influences kids are the things they see and hear. Having those cheerful images and giving a positive insight helps the children understand messages in a fun way. Many of the angles in the film were close ups of the characters faces, giving you great detail of the animated work done by the editors. Every expression was shown as if they were real people, and you could almost feel what the characters were going through. Andy's happy face, Sid's mean face and Buzz's sad face; all right there so you could relate to the emotion. I think it is cute and inspiring to young children to receive a good message in any film. Animated films have always been seen as funny and playful, but they do teach a lesson at some point. It may not be major, but it tells the audience something that they want to put out there, and most of the time that one message can grow into many different opinions; not everyone thinks the same.
