Nathan has a very clever way of manipulating people, whether it's the people he's supposedly trying to help or the customers he is trying to lure. It's not malicious, just hilarious. His ideas are ridiculous and completely irrational but the funny thing is that they work. From creating viral videos that end up on the news to creating TV shows that girls want to be in to promote themselves... it all illuminates how easily people can be suckered into things especially in the world of business and TV. If you're not amazed by the cleverness of the concepts and you don't like deadpan humor then it may not be for you. But there's nothing really like it and I hope more people find out about it because it deserves a good long run.


                
This is my sense of humor exactly. I love everything about this show. I was leery at first from the commercials, but after watching the first episode I could not stop laughing the whole time. Very low energy humor but just incredibly funny in the situations. The conversations are too awkward and ridiculous not to be funny. I showed it to many friends who also loved it. So far this might be the funniest new show on TV. Despite the ridiculousness, some of the ideas are actually pretty good in their own right. I think this show is pretty original, and a great parody of the business marketing TV shows. This is something I personally have been waiting for, its simple, clever, and a satirical comment about American business culture, but with genuine brilliance behind the hilarity. I think Nathan is a genius, and I really hope this show doesn't get canceled like another comment said. I would love to see it continue, but comedy central does love their one season hilarious shows. Hopefully they learn early on that this is a great one and keep it going. The world needs more Nathan.


                
The hardest I've laughed in 10 years!... Three times!Seriously, 10 years ago I had to leave the theater so I could stop laughing, and BREATHE. This show got me to that point at least twice during the season.Nathan's magic comes from one thing, and he does it masterfully: HE COMMITS!!!You can't believe the things he says and does with a straight face and impeccable wit. My favorite is when he messes with the very people that we all know are just begging to be messed with (the uptight, Napoleon-complex, overly-sensitive, D-Bags!). You're like, "I can't believe he just said that."... "I can't believe that guy doesn't hit him."But he gets away with these things because of his unflappable commitment (people don't know what to do!).If I was Comedy Central, I'd have a "Season" for every season. (And, I'd be in heaven)P.S. Episode 7 of Season 1 strays from the magic formula with something completely different, but they're back too the magic in Ep. 8.


                
Nathan for You became my favorite show on television after watching just 2 episodes and I've now seen each episode 3+ times. His deadpan and awkward approach in combination with his hilarious ideas are what really makes it funny. It's a brand of humor that I've never really seen before. I'm 27 years old and it's tough to find a show that both me and my parents can enjoy. My wife, brother, and all of my friends laugh hysterically while watching it. Even the raunchy parts of the show, he somehow manages to take it and make it seem innocent. Best of all, Nathan pulls off clean humor better than any comedian I've seen in a long time. All I can say is it better get renewed!!!


                
Comedy Central seemed to be on a losing streak with original material. The last shows to really do it for me have been Tosh.0 and occasionally Workaholics. I had pretty high expectations for the Ben Show, but the show turned out to be a bit of a dud. Nathan For You on the other hand is hilarious, and was a complete surprise.Nathan Fielder has a business degree... (probably an associates) and offers businesses his ideas on how to become successful. I was hooked from the very first episode I saw, where he gets a frozen yogurt place to sell poo flavored frozen yogurt. In the most recent episode I've seen, he helps a haunted attraction become world known, by trying to get someone to sue the owner for the attraction being too scary... GENIUS. Then, Nathan attempts to conquer his fear of women by creating a dating (bachelor-esque) reality show, with him as the bachelor. He spreads rumors about the good-looking host of the show amongst the women and creates awkward Michael Cera moments when he's alone with them.The show isn't for everybody, but it's total laugh-out-loud comedy for me. If you get the chance, definitely check it out!


                
I can hardly describe what makes this show so incredible. I shall try though...There are hundreds of serialized projects coming to TV every year... Most of them are more or less the same as the next one. Most of them just recycle the same premise, characters and dialogs used for the past 30 years. I enjoy a good whodunit as much as the next guy but I can bear that for limited amount of time, once a week. TV needs to shift, bloom, amaze and shock. Nathan tries very much to do so. And if trying isn't enough for you, I can honestly say he has succeeded...Nathan will make you laugh, think and astonished all at once. The amount of original thought put into this is incredible. I am almost moved to tears by the effort and the pursuit of perfection. Thank you, Nathan!


                
If you have the misfortune of reading this post, please don't find a way to let me know the ten reason why Louie or Parks and Rec are better (Louie is by far funnier than P&R however). This show is just better, i wont tell you why, that's for you to decide. But it is my honest opinion that (admittedly only after two episodes), this show has IT. IT's crude, it's satirical, It has heart, and the presenter is a bastard, these are hard attributes to blend evenly without creating something that's either unbalanced or rubbish. I hope it maintains its quality until it gets canceled, it's not going to last long, i don't know why, it just wont.


                
I have a very particular taste in TV and even more specific and increasingly picky taste in comedy, and this show just happens to hit on all the right notes that tickle my funny bone, the execution is perfect, Nathan is deliciously awkward in the best way possible, I'd love to have a beer with that guy, in or out of character. Beware though, the people that won't get this show or understand the humor will absolutely hate it with every fiber of their being. Textbook Love it or Hate it situation. But if you have a slightly childish sense of humor and the cynicism and disdain for humanity as an old geyser, this may be a perfect match for you. Hope you enjoy!


                
It is terribly clever and too hard to describe but I wanted to say it is real at least most of it is very real. I knew the man who claimed to have the best burger in all of los Angeles. That helped me to know it was real. There are times you will be confused. I feel like this Nathan cat jumped out of Heaven (Canada seems to be where many heavenly creatures are from). If not for comedian, Doug Stanhope recommending this while on the Joe Rogan show I never would have KNOWN about this show. I guess when you move from LA and NYC you don't see all the banners for these shows. So I just started in 2018. I'm in the middle of season 3. PLEASE never stop. Nathan, I LOVE YOU. I LOVE YOU (he likes hearing that a lot). Perfection. The most unique comedy show in years.


                
I was going through a very tough time in my life where it felt like I had forgotten how to laugh or smile and like some kind of miracle, I stumbled upon a Nathan for You clip on Youtube. It was the poop frozen yogurt episode. When I watched the clip I knew I had to watch the entire episode and just binge on Nathan for You. It felt so foreign to laugh, yet amazing after not doing so for weeks. I remember crying after watching a few episodes, not because I was sad, but because this show had made me laugh and actually feel good after thinking I would never feel that way again as I was heavily considering suicide. There is so much silly absurdity in life that make for a good laugh and this show helped me see it. After watching this show, I remembered what funny was and it was a refreshing feeling. I totally identified with Nathan Fielder's character and love the way he isn't afraid to say things that would make others uncomfortable. He's a rebel. I remembered that there are people in this world that enjoy making others feel happy. There isn't one episode I didn't like, I absolutely love them all. This show really picked me up form the hole I was in, and after that I began to see the lighter side of life. This may sound nuts, crazy or unbelievable to you, but it really helped me and it was like something clicked in my brain. I really hope this show doesn't get cancelled and that Nathan may continue to bring us joy and laughter. If the show does unfortunately come to an end, I hope he continues to do what he loves and make people laugh. I could go on for at least another hour on how this show made me feel good and gave me hope in life, but I will cut it here.It's safe for me to say that Nathan Fielder saved my life. If I ever meet him, I will shake his hand and thank him for a job well done. I love you Nathan Fielder! 11/10 stars!


                
Nathan For You is an absolutely new spin on how to create comedy out of just being yourself. I have been a fan of Nathan Fielder for a long time now and I remember he used to do a segment on This Hour Has 22 Minutes which actually got my attention and convinced me to start watching that show. His segment was very similar to what he does here in Nathan For You and as soon as I found out he was getting his own show I had huge hopes and it has certainly delivered. The show itself pushes the boundaries of television and allows Nathan to do things no other TV show has been able to. The best scenes boil right down to the one-on-one interviews he has with his participants and just the awkward places he takes those conversations makes for a really funny scene. It's always funny to take people out of their comfort zone and put them on the spot.


                
Nathan Fielder is a wunderkind. I'm actually kind of jaded on TV shows, and Nathan for You has me utterly rapt.The show has depth, from concept to edit. Everyone seems to be pulling their weight. And, of course, Nathan himself continues to come off as the faux-jaunty, need-to-succeed, driven-yet-fey figure in the eye of a moral typhoon of his own furtive fashioning. He's surely the man of the decade.Just noticed what may be a shift in style; most of the shows thus far have involved his plying two concepts per-show. A recent episode (S03E03/"The Movement") is devoted to ONE concept. Perhaps not quite the embarrassment of riches of previous shows, but it worked just fine; if he can keep that up, good on 'im!I note the show is rated highly on IMDb, from a relative paucity of commenters. It would be sad to think of the show as a rare delicacy, enjoyed by connoisseurs. NATHAN FOR EVERYBODY, y'all!Godspeed, Nathan.


                
I was hesitant to start this show but i am SOO glad i did, honestly i would put in the top ten best shows ever. Nathan Fielder is a comedy genius who went to business school and got really good grades, his personality carries this show. Nathan for You is one of the few shows i could constantly watch and not need a break. it is not only Hilarious, but extremely interesting how "normal" people react to these crazy circumstances that Nathan puts in front of them. I also believe the season 4 finale "Finding Frances" has to be one of the greatest episodes of any show ever, and i would pay an endless amount of money for season 5


                
Just brilliant, each and every episode is hilarious


                
I really just want to add a 10/10 rating. I can't begin to describe the show, which is by turns funny enough to have you sobbing with laughter, or so cringe-worthy you have to watch with your eyes closed, or - all of a sudden - is a show creating the most intricate work of performance art that i have ever seen ('Smokers Allowed').Don't miss it.


                
Nathan for You is hilarious. Pure genius...reminds me of early Woody Allen or Sasha Baron Cohen in Borat. Nathan is portrayed as an arrogant loser...you know the type. The guy is completely clueless and the show is so creative in coming up with so many bizarre ideas. The reaction of people to Nathan's personality is half the fun. The formula is simple: Nathan makes a suggestion to a small business owner or manager on how to improve profits. They reluctantly agree and Nathan gets to work...consulting experts, etc. He then follows through on it and it's a disaster and ultimately rejected. Nathan then awkwardly tries befriend the client and he, too is rejected. Too funny!
Granted, everybody might not be the fan of deadpan comedy, as some might find them upright unsettling and uncomfortable. However, if you are a big fan of deadpan comedy, or if you are looking for some shows to watch after dinner, or if you were looking for a good deadpan- style comedy, this is the series for you. Nathan Fielder, who graduated one of the Canada's top business school with really good grades (not really), is committed to help struggling small businesses. His ideas might not be conventional, or even practical, but he never fails to astound the audience from the pure absurdity of his plan. When you think you know everything about Nathan, he will find a way to surprise you with his new business proposal. Although I've scoffed at some of his stunts, as with the petting zoo episode, or the famous Dumb Starbucks episode, he really caught me off guard when he proudly told the audience that he will file a class action lawsuit against a giant tech superstore chain, Best Buy. Seconds later he showily mentioned his plan to battle with an army of corporate lawyers of Best Buy, and I was amazed by his intellect and comedic genius to think outside the box, and to always provide seamless entertainment during the way.Nathan for You is more than a absurd show about weird business proposals from a weird Canadian. It is about Nathan, and his journey to overcome his emotional timidness, to make friends (although he fails time after time), and ultimately, to make people happy by helping them any way he can; no matter how ridiculous his plan might be.
The extent to which I watch TV is limited to the sporadic, irregular cases of those moments I go to my friend's house to watch hockey, get drunk and he throws on some show he's been watching recently and tells me how good it is.He generally watches good stuff and over there we've watched some Rick & Morty, Mr. Show, Peep Show, The IT Crowd, etc. All approved by my snobbish standards (I think most TV sucks, besides the occasional gem that pokes through the crap). Other shows I like are Breaking Bad, Curb Your Enthusiasm, The Boondocks, Louie... Maybe some others I can't remember now but the list is very short.After watching Nathan For You, I believe I am witnessing some new pinnacle in comic genius unfold before me in each episode. I watched four episodes at my friend's place and it puts every other comedian who has embarked on the quest of creating humor in a (pseudo) scripted environment to shame. The extent to which this show mocks the effect of modern culture and capitalism / business on individuals and their behavior, modern law, viral news and video culture and people's perception of art and culture is hard to measure or understand.There is an episode where he attempts to help a coffee shop by telling the owner he needs to spoof Starbucks. I could write a detailed explanation of why this episode is brilliant, but I would be spoiling it for you. Just please go watch this episode. It's genius.There's another episode where he advises a thrift store owner to let all of her attractive customers steal items from the store. Again, any explanation is a spoiler, it's just friggin comic gold. Go watch it.The beauty of this show is that he evokes comedy from every day, unsuspecting people. Also, while most episodes are large in scope, the whole concept is simple and basic in execution. Most of the "actors" on the show are just people he finds along the way and manipulates into carrying out his completely sarcastic and backwards concepts for success, and more often than not, they actually work, which I'm not even sure can be considered ironic. There are hilarious moments throughout each episode, all which contribute to a bigger picture of completely ludicrous outcomes in each business proposal. The awkwardness is palpable in some scenes, and it's joe schmoe on the corner creating them.In short, I think all the household names you know and love, Louis CK, Kevin Hart, comedian XYZ whoever, all pale in comparison to the scope and magnitude achieved by this show which in reality is completely basic in principle. Nathan For You is bending the rules on what you can achieve with a camera and a TV show.


                
If the purpose of a comedy show is to make you laugh, then this show is, without a doubt, the best comedy on television. I don't care who you are or where you come from, you are going to laugh uncontrollably for minutes at a time throughout almost every episode of Nathan for You. He is a genius. He is a leader. He is a revolutionary.You might be thinking -- that sounds hyperbolic. Not the case. After watching the first episode I was literally in pain from laughing so hard. My friend was on the floor, crying. This guy spent thousands of Comedy Central's dollars to fake a YouTube video where a pig rescues a goat from drowning in a pond. He actually paid a scuba diver to hold up the pig from underneath so that it looked like the pig was swimming across the pond to rescue the goat, when actually it was just flailing its legs. I hope that example illustrates my point.


                
I'll start by saying this is my first ever review (after using IMDB for many years) but I just had to spread the word and support this series and all who worked on it. The show is not only funny, it is hilariously clever and so well put together - every episode is unique and I've never thought I could upset my wife so much by bursting out laughing (usually watching after she's asleep, haha).It breaks my heart there will be no 5th season, but I cannot wait to see what is next from the genius mind of Nathan Fielder. A must watch for anyone who loves to laugh!


                
There is nothing else like this on tv, never has been never will be. There were episodes were I was literally rolling the floor uncontrollably laughing so hard. I yearn for more
Of this show, tho a season 5 seems unlikely at this point. Multiple campaigns from this show went viral, you're gonna watch it and be like: "OMG THAT WAS HIM!?!!?l". Multiple corporations have stolen his ideas. I can not say close to enough good things about this show. You're honestly better off knowing little as you can just hopping in, you won't stop, make sure u have time to binge Bc you're gonna wanna...


                
I cried and my face hurt from laughing. The extent that he takes things and the commitment he has to his ridiculous ideas is amazing. I really hope that he'll be able to continue with the show, but people will probably catch on... I hope not, but all good things must come to an end.This is a hidden gem that gets overlooked. It has an 8.8 rating right now, thanks to people with a dim sense of humor that gave it a 1. Would be much higher without the curmudgeons. JUST WATCH IT


                
Not just Hilarious Cringe Comedy but also a satirical take on the 21st Century Management Strategies and Corporate America's influence on small businesses.


                
After some years season 4 is finally airing and I'm thrilled. I'm surprised to see so few reviews on here, but not really. A lot of brilliant shows go unseen. Anyway, not sure how to explain why you should watch this. It's funny and real, real funny you might say.


                
I don't know how many TV-series I've watched and how many of them are counted as "Comedy" series, but this has been one of the few that once made me laugh at least a couple of times in all of the episodes and the ONLY ONE that made me cry laughing in one of the episodes, for real! Knowing my admiration to Borat and how it combined acting with the people on the street and how tolerant they get in front of a movie crew, a close friend of mine suggested Nathan For You to me and I was not more thankful for another movie/TV-series suggestion. Great scripts each episode and even better acting. I don't believe Nathan For You could be perceived as being harsh as Borat but still I guess it is not a work that would make all viewers laugh out loud. But at least from the friends I've recommended it, I haven't gotten any bad responses and do claim that it is a must watch, being one of the funniest TV-series EVER.


                
