This show is loaded with excellent acting and writing!!!!! It's worth watching every minute and shot. Steve Buscemi definitely deserves an Emmy for his portrayal of "Nucky." I haven't enjoyed a show from HBO this much since "Deadwood." The characters are well layered and the dialogue is fantastic. The supporting cast is immensely talented and the scenery is simply gorgeous. Michael Pitt is a pleasure to watch in his, complex role of the war hero gone bad. I hope this show lasts a lot longer than "Deadwood" did and makes household names out of its cast. I'll keep my HBO subscription forever if more shows like these are on the horizon.


                
The show doesn't need any introduction and neither does the cast. It encompasses a generation where the political landscape is much the same as today but it is laced with more violence, sexism and corruption and in the midst is a thriving business of illegal alcohol.A new standard is set with the storytelling, cinematography, elaborate sets on the shores of Brooklyn, carefully chosen custom tailored clothes and costumes that match the opulent lifestyles of the characters. The occasional inserts of magazines, books, manuals; all in their original form, which not only gives originality (to the show) for the era that is being depicted but also takes you back in time into the deeply woven lives of characters like Mrs Schroeder, Nucky, Eli, Nelson and my personal favorite character Mr. Kessler. A barrage of other prominent real life characters like Arnold Rothstein, Lucky Liciano, Al Capone, (Jimmy Darmody?), Johnny Torrio, Senators, Congressmen, President and VP contenders make the show complete and give it a political as well as a mob dimension. Much of what is in the show is based on true events and a cursory search on Wikipedia on some of the famous characters validates it. This is what makes this brilliant show dark just like it's setting - theme song with clouds over Atlantic city. One of the less talked about part of the show perhaps are the melodious songs that the producers/writers have decided for the background score. The songs fill up the environment with melancholy just like much of the show and leaves us eagerly waiting for the next episode. Any less than ten stars for the show would only reflect lack of fine taste.


                
I am not a big TV lover. Mostly I watch South Park, but this show has gotten me interested in more live-action shows. It tells its stories with the same quality as a normal theater film for each episode making it feel like a massive crime drama experience. I have been waiting for a while now to review it, and now that the first season is over I can make my honest opinion clear. I live on a barrier island in New Jersey named Long Beach Island. It is about an hour drive away from Atlantic City so as you can guess I've been there a few times. My favorite part about Atlantic City is the boardwalk. Since this show is named Boardwalk Empire it should do a good job at showing what it looked like back in the 20's. Simply put it captures the 20's perfectly. The show is directed so well I felt like I was transported back to those days. They also capture the feel of the 20's in other ways by showing historic events such as the World Series scam. In the end though it best captures the spirit of the 20's on the boardwalk. As for the plot it is set in the 1920's. Prohabition has begun starting a whole decade of illegal alcohol smuggling. The Treasurer of Atlantic City Nucky Thompson is starting a smuggling business that results in some bloody consequences. Along the way he meets a woman named Mrs. Schroeder, deals with an oncoming election, and more. It is a very well told story. It manages to tell several different stories throughout the show, but none of them feel underdone. They all are extremely well put together story lines. You have the main alcohol smuggling story, the story of Nucky and Margaret, the story of Jimmy, the story of Capone, the story of Lucky, the story of Eli Thompson, the story of Agent Nelson Van Alden, and many more. All these different stories keep things fresh. The emotions that are shown in the episodes are powerful. As the episodes go on emotions get stronger like layers of an onion. Something that is also present in this show is flare. Every gangster flick needs that style to it. It needs to have that gangster feel. While this show doesn't have a lot of that when it happens it is really cool. Now I end this review on the acting. Everybody does a swell job. Buscemi is great as usual, and everyone else is great. The person who I'm most interested in is Michael Pitt who is a relatively unknown actor, but here is great and I would like to see him other things. He could make it real big. Overall I love this show. I will be a viewer of the next season for sure.


                
A couple of days a go, I saw the pilot of Boardwalk Empire, directed by Maestro Martin Scorsese and written by Terence Winter, one of the main writers of the Sopranos. This is by far the best pilot I've ever seen. Impeccably directed; pure Scorsese, brilliantly written, perfectly casted, amazingly acted and just visually stunning! The look Mr. Scorsese established for the show is a joy to watch and hopefully the other directors will be able to emulate it, but I guess since we have Tim Van Patten, Allen Coulter and Alan Taylor directing most of the episodes, we're safe! From the first episode, Boardwalk Empire shows a great promise. It's about time Steve Buscemi got a leading role, a fine actor and a show stealer, and he's nothing short of great here, with a great supporting show to carry the show with him.If the show continues like the pilot, and keeps using great soundtracks like the ones Mr. Scorsese used for the pilot. Then we have a third show to join the Sopranos and the Wire. And the fact that HBO renewed the show for a second season two days after it's premiere says something.Will be watching.


                
When I watched this it kept me to the edge of my seat waiting to know what will happen next and when. The music with the movie is just like drinking a beer and feeling your first buzz It plays at the right time. The historically reality is just stunning, The silent movies the comedy play mixed with the raids from the feds. It shows how many people were actually poor in certain types of town with low pay. How men who drink beat their wives I did not enjoy watching that though that got me kind of mad at the guy and wanted to see him dead in the show because he killed a unborn child buy beating the mother of it,and Martin Scorsese roll in it. A big $50 million just for the pilot their investing a lot into this show. I enjoyed all the way through even the credits.One of the best pilots I have ever seen.
This is a fantastic series; its the kind of outstanding, must-see programming that drives new subscribers to HBO. The series has superb production values and masterful direction by Scorsese. The acting is first-rate all around, especially the portrayal of Rothstein.Nucky's girlfriend (played by Paz de la Heurta) spices the show up with wonderful flashes of her beautiful nude body. The dressing room scene in episode #3 where she strips naked is magnificent to behold! The lady is a work of art...There is also a subtle complexity to the character of Nucky. He is not just a "bad" villain; a simple,one-dimensional caricature. Instead, he shows loving emotions, such as his desire to have children and his attraction to the good-hearted, honest immigrant girl. (who on the surface appears to be his antithesis) He doesn't just commit crimes or violence for enjoyment of evil, but its often part of a Machiavellian purpose.He doesn't just take from the community, but he gives back as well. Perhaps he is the benevolent dictator or Philosopher King that Plato imagined. In many cases he redistributes wealth to those who need it most. Even if he is primarily doing it to serve his own interests, he is providing a critical function and service to the community and time in which he lives.The series also makes stinging criticisms of how the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and how powerful political and economic interests often manipulate naive, well-intentioned fools. Even today, soft drugs like marijuana are illegal, while far more addictive and socially harmful products (such as tobacco and alcohol) are legal. Marijuanna has been kept illegal because the powerful alcohol and tobacco lobby groups don't want competition to cut into their profits. But dumb people still believe the politicians who outlaw soft drugs like this are doing it to "protect" society.In any case, this series is highly entertaining and will help people to understand the futility of prohibition policies and start to think about the real political and economic interests that are operating behind the scenes. The show is fun and addictive. (hopefully the government won't outlaw it) Watch it; you'll be glad you did.


                
And they teamed up with Scorsese and Buscemi.I really liked the pilot, but it was the 2nd episode that really hooked me up!! The characters are so well written, filled with humanity and contradictions.Most of the dramatic situations are pretty conventional, but, as someone once said: "it is better to start with a cliché than to end with it".I have no doubt the show will end up being a freshening experience for the crime genre fans.And no, Nukcy Thompson is not Tony Soprano. This is not a family drama.This is something else, and thank god they aren't repeating the Sopranos formula, but going in a different direction, which I'm sure give great results :-)


                
I don't understand how anyone could be bored with this show especially with the cast Steve Buscemi is great and I am glad to see him finally get a lead so he can really flex his acting "muscles" I watched 2 seasons of Madmen And had enough I have seen all 11 episodes to date and am looking forward to 12 I have done some research on Nuchy and Steve has all of the qualities except appearance also I don't think any of us should second guess HBO - Martin Scorcece or any of the other producers of this show this is a period of history that not too many of us know very much about and I welcome it. Thumbs up to HBO for another hit and I hope this goes on to tell the whole story. There is a lot of fiction blended with fact but this artistic license to not only entertain but to create curiosity about the history of a very dark time in our country


                
I have been thoroughly enjoying all the episodes so far. I think the story line has been well thought out. I am intrigued in learning about all the characters that are being introduced that I had not heard of previously. Being Jewish I think it is great they added Meyer Lansky to the script.I would like to see more of a back story on him and how he got to where he is in partnership with the other characters. I don't want this to take away from the script. I thought there could be flashbacks shown that educates us on the characters.The show is great and I hope it continues for a long time.


                
As the somewhat 'tongue-in-cheek' summary suggests, comparing 'Boardwalk Empire' with the majority of your TV guide may seem as pointless as inflating a balloon with peanut butter. The mere fact I am able to see such a show week in, week out is frankly a miracle considering the tripe we usually suffer. I actually feel blessed that such an ambitiously creative idea has come into fruition in such a flawless manner – truly a credit to each and every member involved.Now before I continue with this review, I should first speak of my adoration of Terence Winter, and more specifically his inspired work with 'The Sopranos'. Like many of you, The series left me with an endless void (and a sore head). It was a truly remarkable show, entirely worthy of its timeless eminence. Since the finale of The Sopranos, I have kept a keen eye open, watching intently for Winter's next move.Boardwalk Empire is set in 1920's America, during the passing of the prohibition law. Believed to be a catalyst of organised crime, the prohibition era sets the scene for our main character, Enoch (Nucky) Thompson (based on the real-life 'Enoch Johnson') as the puppeteer of Atlantic City; pulling all of the political and criminal strings, often in tandem. At a time of increasing competition in the illegal liquor business, Nucky must keep a firm grasp on his illicit control over Atlantic City whilst playing the proverbial part of the reputable politician.I first heard of Boardwalk Empire once Scorsese had picked up the Pilot for direction. That was the moment I knew something momentous was on its way. As the series picked up energy, it suddenly became difficult to ignore. Experienced names such as Buscemi and Shannon along with some I had not heard much of (Pitt, Graham, MacDonald) were cast and as the pilot finally aired.At first glance, I was somewhat frustrated by the lack of pace the pilot seemed to exhibit. I saw many elements of a period drama but assumed the show may be trying too hard to look the part whilst leaving substance behind. Thankfully, my cynicism lasted little over 15 minutes.As the series gathered wind, I felt myself truly emotionally torn by these characters. Nucky's apparent affability glossed over in a coat of manipulative deceit brilliantly epitomises the corruption augmented by the prohibition. Buscemi's profile may not on paper be ideal for such a character, but he seamlessly removes the comical facade he is more accustomed to and becomes Nucky – for better and worse.That said, there are a quite ridiculous number of stand-out roles to be excited by. Michael Pitt plays Nucky's post-war prodigy – Jimmy Darmody. An ambitious and casually violent character, Darmody struggles to wrestle his turbulent relationship with Nucky, his unreciprocated love for his distant and artistic wife and his desire to fulfil the role Nucky has set for him. Michael Pitt is surely the highlight of the cast – his great blue eyes often telling more of the story than any dialogue. As a reasonably young actor, Pitt is surely one to look out for.Other notable performances include Shannon as the hard-hitting, forceful FBI agent, Nelson Van Alden. Glimpses into his dark and mysterious side show another element to a character in danger of becoming too one sided. Shannon, as expected, performs this side to the character utterly convincingly.Kelly MacDonald as Margaret Schroeder is a superb example of a modern woman caught in older times. Unable at times to contain her own noble ideas behind Nucky's own agenda, you at times wonder what exactly she wants from Atlantic City, and in particular from Nucky Johnson. Kelly MacDonald provides a faultless and inspiring display and falls into the whole period feel outstandingly.Stephen Graham as a young Al Capone, Michael Stuhlbarg as Arnold Rothstein and The Wire's Michael K. Williams as Chalky White also offer excellent viewing.After 10 episodes, the series is at a knife edge (literally in some cases). Tension between criminal contingents is building to what will undoubtedly be a dazzling, awe-inspiring climax. The character interactions leaves so such today's television miles behind, and with a cast so astoundingly talented and a script so eloquently sharp, you truly feel that every second of this incredible show is unmissable. As a big budget TV series, there is obvious pressure from HBO to ensure Boardwalk Empire is a resounding success. Instead, HBO decided to commission season 2 after just one episode. Testament if it were needed to both HBO (who are surely the most envied network on US TV right now) and everybody involved in this show.10/10
Buscemi is awesome as Atlantic City's version of Tony Soprano, and Pitt nails the amazingly-written part of Jimmy Darmody (based on the real-life Jimmy Boyd), a Princeton-educated World War Vet struggling for redemption in many different ways; in fact, all of the characters are interesting, for different reasons, and brought to life by a top-quality cast. According to IMDb, Martin Scorsese (executive producer & director of the pilot) even insisted that the boardwalk floorboards for the Brooklyn set be cut identically to those actually used in Atlantic City at the time in which the story was based; while the average person may not notice or care, this illustrates the level of commitment and attention to detail put into this project. Don't confuse the first few episodes as slow; instead, like The Godfather, they are deliberate and methodical, and the payoff scenes are explosive and satisfying. In my opinion, the best character in the show doesn't even show up until later in the first season (at a Veterans Hospital); Jack Huston is awesome. Season 2 is even better than the first. The suspense is thick, the plot is compelling, and the action is not for the squeamish--I watched someone's face get beat in with a wrench, someone else get a meat cleaver in the head, and yet someone else's throat get slit...all with no cut-aways. The themes continue to be deep: struggles with faith; the long voyage home from war; family ties; the sanctity of trust, racism, the adequacy of the justice system, etc. I love this show. Season 3 can't come fast enough.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out: www.livemancave.com


                
I absolutely adore Boardwalk Empire - I watch very little television, and this... this has me hanging for more at every turn. At first, I was a little leery, but hearing it was from HBO... it deserved the benefit of the doubt, and my, it absolutely blew me away. The acting, costumes, sets, cars and mannerisms... it's like they've gone back in time. The era is captured magnificently, it's honestly and really believable. Steve Buscemi plays an unforgettable character. I really do not have the words. Kelly McDonald, who plays Margaret Schroeder, is soft, gentle and not without backbone, as we come to see - she's a fantastic character and actor, and above all, she does what most women would do - she's realistic, in her own way.The music, actors and atmosphere contained are wonderful. It is literally the best thing I have seen on television for a long, long time, and they've certainly got a captivated audience in me.


                
There's a familiar theme that runs through the acting repertoire of Steve Buscemi.In "Reservoir Dogs", it's "No, don't kill me." In "Trees Lounge", it's "No, don't treat me like an adult." In "The Imposters" it's "No, I don't want to live."In "Boardwalk Empire", it's "No, don't make me a crime boss." And even though every episode begins with his spindly silhouette ambling uncoordinatedly away on shifting sand, he manages to pull it off. Steve Buscemi stars as Enoch "Nucky" Thompson in an historical organized crime drama that will have you wondering how much of it really happened.Shea Whigham also gives a breakout performance in this series, as the surly county sheriff Eli Thompson, Nucky's under-appreciated brother.


                
I absolutely love this series. Brilliant everything. The actors are first class. The attention to detail, historical & cultural knowledge of this time is so well researched & so rich in detail. Just a complete joy to watch.


                
The quality of this show can be seen from the very start. And it's not just because you get glimpses of what is to come (Chalky White and other characters introduced even if just for a short amount of time), but because of what information is packed inside it. It's so rich with detail, both in the costume and set department/design and also the character insight.Obviously you need actors to pull that off and it doesn't hurt that Martin Scorsese is directing the very first episode. But there is more to it. As you can see (if you wish) in the extras/behind the scenes stuff, you have great visionaries behind the camera. The attention to detail is tremendous and it really pays off screen. Letting characters stay in the dark about how and where they are heading is genius too. It keeps them on their toes. Throwing in historical figures and making it look so smoothly is also quite a feat.There is obviously violence and nudity and all that grown up stuff. But how else would you be able to depict the era or someone like Al Capone? So if you are open minded and have no issues with the above but embrace that kind of film and storytelling, you will have the best of time ...


                
This show needs to be seen if your into your gangster movies like the Untouchables. It is a slow burner, but it does that so you invest in the characters and care about what happens to them. This and Peaky Blinders have some of the best acting and cast I've seen on any TV show. The only problem I have with Boardwalk is only 5 seasons. HBO at its best.


                
Every episode is better than the one before. The series keeps surprising you. The series is in 20s style all over: costumes, music, the atmosphere. Even the food they buy and eat. This series contains humor, love, action and the full 20s vibe. You really get to know the characters and feel with them. Everything. This is indeed the best series I have ever seen.


                
G from Gangsters, great acting, great casting , great scenarios , great story ...and so on and so on.This is at my top 5 TV shows (that finished already) along with : Sopranos , Breaking Bad ,Six Feet Under ,Rescue me .I took a while to star watching this, cant say why but i'm more that glad that i did it !Everything that you wish to get from a TV show is here, the feeling you get after watching every single episode is the same, you just want to watch the next one ...until there's none! ;)I advise you to watch this show and if you agree with me ,give it 10 points .


                
I regret to say I have finally finished watching "epic" television in the five seasons (56 hours) of BOARDWALK EMPIRE. The scope of history - from the adoption of the 18th Amendment's prohibiting the making, transporting, and selling of alcoholic beverages passed in 1919 through its repeal in 1933, and how it generated an industry run by criminals - names of gangster's that are still familiar to us, their brutality romanticized over time in film and television; Lucky Luciano, Meyer Lansky, Al Capone, Arnold Rothstein, etc. set against the backdrop of Atlantic City with satellite locations in NYC, Chicago and Miami.The history of race relations, women's rights, workers rights, corrupt public servants and rigged elections are woven through the plot as broken, disillusioned soldiers return home from fighting in WW I; Presidential elections come and go as the nation slides into dissolution and the chaos of financial ruin. Names that are familiar to us such as J. Edgar Hoover, Eddie Cantor, Joe Kennedy (father of Jack) are characterized but not caricatured by a wonderful cast. When one great actor gets written out of the series, and I feel a deep disappointment, another one appears and gives an equally compelling performance.Ambition, greed, sex, love and marriage - the range of uniquely varied personal interactions propels the plot into new directions as we witness the ebb and flow of time on a character's persona.There is an authenticity to the sense of place - from the shacks in the "negro" part of town to the lavishly decorated mansions of the power-brokers - each set design has intricate details that help delineate an accurate, sociological study of southern NJ coastal towns.The cinematography is often exquisitely breathtaking, such as choreographed scenes of violence in the darkened light of night; the infinite expanse of water touching the Atlantic City shoreline with bursts of gunfire spawning fireworks of sharp white flashes, a resounding thunder of sound and visual effects, and then the quiet of death, red blood slowly puddling on the ground.BOARDWALK EMPIRE has a superb cast: doe-eyed Steve Buscemi in the role of his life portraying Nucky Thompson - the "overlord" of Atlantic City - a man who "tried to be good" but reached for more and more money to maintain the lifestyle that he envied as a child, and eventually achieves at a terrible cost; Bobby Cannavale - great as the clinically insane gangster Gyp Rosetti whose id is let loose in horrific acts of violence; Michael K. Williams is heartbreaking - hard and pragmatic in business with a poetic, "romantic" side as "Chalky White" the son of a carpenter who was lynched by the very white men he was building cabinets for - Chalky runs the black part of town and teams up with Nucky in the bootlegging business; Jeffrey Wright as Dr. Valentin Narcisse, a disciple of Marcus Garvey whose actions belie his philosophical beliefs; the always terrific Michael Shannon as a fanatically religious federal Agent who loses his way; Stephen Graham as the explosive, vicious mobster, Al Capone; Kelly Macdonald as Margaret Thompson married to Nucky whose beauty blossoms while her innocence fades away; Gretchen Mol- a tragic figure as Gillian Darmody mother and lover of her son Jimmy played by Michael Pitt - a tragic tale of a woman who had to face life alone as a child battling sexual abuse among other acts that vulnerable children with no protectors are forced to endure; and a personal favorite Jack Huston-grandson of great director John Huston who comes home from the War with half his face blown off - hidden behind a mask - a complicated person whose sharp-shooting skills are put to use by the mob, but whose goodness prevails - if anyone takes the time to "look" at him. I encourage you to take the time to view this series - it is true to the historical figures which are intertwined into this grand tale of the Prohibition era - post WWI up to pre WWII where money and power contaminated those who were supposed to be the guardians of the populace. Relationships between family members, husbands and wives, fathers and sons, sisters and brothers are all impacted by the vicissitudes of an age that tried to stamp down profligate behavior and ironically encouraged a much deeper amorality.


                
Boardwalk Empire is not is classic, but for what it is, it is really damn good. With an awesome 1920s atmosphere, carefully chosen music and interesting characters, Boardwalk Empire was truly a memorable experience for me, maybe it's biggest "flaw" is the fact that the main character (Steve Buscemi) usually gets overshadowed by the so called "supporting cast", but Buscemi, as always, delivers a charismatic and admirable performance.Funny,tragic,violent...a lot of adjectives can be used to describe Boardwalk Empire, but none of them is a negative one.Thank you, HBO :D


                
This is the story of how outlawing the selling of <U+0084>intoxicating liquors" in America, generated an era dominated by gangsters, eager to seize this opportunity to build a profitable business, by smuggling alcohol. Based on true events, Boardwalk Empire depicts the United States of America during the 1920s and 1930s, following the story of some of the most known gangsters during the prohibition era, focusing mainly on the notorious Atlantic City's racketeer Enoch Johnson, here named Enoch Thomson. This series has Martin Scorsese as one of the producers and the Golden Globe winner, Steve Buscemi, in the lead role. The writing is amazing, with an array of charismatic characters portrayed throughout the show by great actors, the set is really grandiose and the costumes are impressively accurate. The attention to detail is outstanding and all the ingredients necessary for a real successful TV show are blended into the captivating Boardwalk Empire, which can be recommended to everyone interested in crime and gangster movies.


                
First of all, and chronologically, pilot is the best I have ever seen. Anyone who read a little bit about this show will know: that the pilot was directed by Martin Scorsese and how enormous amounts of money were spent on it. The show itself is realistic, detailed and accurate. Every wound, killing and word feels so authentic, while everything is shot like a long, interesting movie. I, personally, love the story of prohibition and mobsters operating in that time, and this show, filled with amazing actors lead by Steve Buscemi, will just make you feel you are there. Michael Kenneth Williams (actor playing Chalky White), who is a regular cast in HBO series, is as good as he was in The Wire. Entire crew did an awesome job and succeeded in making characters and story interesting, different and shocking. I just hope the story lines and acting live up to the promise - they certainly have so far.


                
HBO has been at the forefront of some really impressive television series. As of late, I've found myself hooked on BOARDWALK EMPIRE. The best way to describe it: The Goodfellas of the 1920s. At the start of Season 1, we meet Nucky Thompson (played expertly by Steve Buscemi) who pretty much runs Atlantic City. Even though he preaches temperance, it's soon obvious that he's behind supplying the city with the now-illegal liquor. Throughout the series, he runs a-foul of numerous gangsters, crooked politicians, and the odd busybody, including: Margaret (the wonderful Kelly Macdonald) an Irish mother who thinks she can save Nucky from his violent ways; street punk and returning war veteran Jimmy Darmody (the creepy Michael Pitt from FUNNY GAMES) and his equally bizarre mother Gillian (Gretchen Mol); ex-fed turned criminal Nelson Van Alden (Michael Shannon); up-and-coming gangster Al Capone (Stephen Graham). To name just a few. With Martin Scorsese working behind the scenes, you can be guaranteed the same quality that you'd expect from his gangster pictures. Oh yes, gentle viewer, there will be sex and blood! But then again, that's why you'd tune-in to begin with. However, this series manages to offer you even more. Since the era being portrayed is the 1920s and 30s, there's many historical events happening in the background. Overall, there's a little something for everyone to enjoy. Maybe I should make you an offer you can't refuse: Go watch this series!
Boardwalk Empire: is what happens when Martin Scorsese is the head of a TV show! Need I say more? I don't think so. The pilot speaks for itself and sets up one of the finest shows of the television golden age.Steve Buscemi is outstanding as Nucky Thompson and this show basically set up the benchmark for future HBO shows like Game of Thrones, True Detective, The Night Of and WestWorld where the network was able to attract film directors and actors making some material that transcends a lot of modern Hollywood cinema.Boardwalk Empire is like a serialized crime film. I love my crime films and Boardwalk is a beautiful addition to the crime fiction canon.


                
Boardwalk Empire is one of the greatest television shows of all-time,an excellent,powerful and stylish classic that's filled with amazing direction,powerful performances from the cast,terrific writing and a wonderful theme song. All of those elements make Boardwalk Empire an amazing Gangster Crime Drama and Television at it's best.Set in and around Atlantic City,New Jersey during Prohibition in the 1920s,Boardwalk Empire tells the story of Enoch Nucky" Thompson(Steve Buscemi),a man who runs Atlantic City as a politician and Gangster with an iron hand. While running Atlantic City,Nucky has to deal with violence,death and betrayal during the 1920s and 30s.Boardwalk Empire is a brilliant and unforgettable show that is an instant classic from the moment you watch it. Executive Produced by Martin Scorsese and created by Terence Winter(one of the head writers of The Sopranos)Boardwalk Empire is a T.V show that for 5 seasons and 56 episodes is up there on top of the list of other all-time great television shows such as The Sopranos,The Wire and Deadwood while giving viewers one of the finest and most realistic shows about Gangsters and the Prohibition-era that people will ever see. For me Boardwalk Empire is an incredible show that is of many things and more because it's a combination of being entertaining and stylish,violent and shocking,brutal and surprising as well as daring and uncompromising showing viewers a dark and powerful look into the world of violent and very dangerous Gangsters,Prohibition,law enforcement,money and the behind the scenes chaos that came with the Gangsters during the Prohibition era with themes such as death,violence and betrayal that lead to doom and tragedy. When you watch and look at Boardwalk Empire you will definitely be reminded some of the great Gangster classics of the 1930s such as The Public Enemy(1931),Little Caeser,Scarface,Angels With Dirty Faces(1938)and The Roaring Twenties(1939)and while BWE borrows some of the style and feel of those films BWE has it's own unique style. One of the things I also love about BWE is the shows inclusion of real life Gangsters such as Al Capone,Arnold Rothstein,Lucky Luciano,Meyer Lansky,Johnny Torrio,Bugsy Siegel and Joe Masseria especially showing how Capone,Luciano and Lansky were before they all came into power. While BWE is a Gangster show the tone is very much in the spirit of Film Noir where most of the characters are dark and cynical and pretty much most of the characters are good,bad or in between and telling viewers that a person's Actions can lead to deadly consequences with no way out. That is one of the things that makes BWE so amazing that it's not just a show about Bootlegging and Gangsters but about morality and ethics. Most critics and viewers complained about the pacing of the show saying that BWE is too slow and doesn't move fast enough I strongly disagree with that because every time I saw an episode of BWE I was glued to the screen. The pace is more like The Godfather Trilogy,Sergio Leone's Once Upon A Time In America or a novel where in each season or every episode there is tons of amazing build-up to a wonderful conclusion. I think that's one of the reasons despite BWE greatness that the show wasn't a huge hit during it's original run. The writing by Terence Winter,Howard Korder and others is terrific and absolutely flawless with dialog that is great,intense and done with detail and scenes that are just truly unforgettable and jaw dropping make the show iconic. The violence and death scenes on BWE are brutal,harsh and very horrific but I think it suits the show because BWE is being true to the times of Prohibition and the criminal world of the 1920s and 30s. The main character Nucky Thompson is a terrific character on this show and a memorable Gangster because when you see Nucky you don't think of him to be intimidating or scary like Tony Soprano but when Nucky enters a room you can feel his presence throughout. Nucky can be cold and ruthless but at times when you look at the show during the five seasons you see that there is complex personality to Nucky as he tries to balance being a Gangster and politician as well as dealing with the people around him whether it's rival gangsters or family. While Nucky isn't the most colorful or attention grabbing character(like the supporting characters)on the show he's one of the most fascinating characters and is the one that holds the show together. The ending in the series finale of Boardwalk Empire is amazing,powerful and is a classic conclusion that not only brings Boardwalk Empire full circle but also the main character Nucky Thompson full circle in a beautiful,haunting and tragic way. An outstanding ending.The cast in all five seasons are terrific with excellent and memorable performances by Steve Buscemi(Enoch 'Nucky' Thompson),Kelly Macdonald(Margaret Schroeder),Michael Pitt(Jimmy Darmody),Michael Shannon(Nelson Van Alden),Shea Whigham,(Eli Thompson),Jack Huston(Richard Harrow),Michael K. Williams(Chalky White),Gretchen Mol(Gillian Darmody),Michael Stulberg(Arnold Rothstein),Vincent Piazza(Lucky Luciano),Anatol Yusef(Meyer Lansky),Bobby Cannavale(Gyp Rosetti),Jeffrey Wright(Valentin Narcisse),Greg Antonacci(Johnny Torrio),Ivo Nandi(Joe Masseria),Anthony Laciura(Eddie Kessler),Paul Sparks(Mickey Doyle),Dabney Coleman(Commodore Louis Kaestner),Charlie Cox(Owen Sleater),Aleska Palladino(Angela Darmody),Paz De La Huerta(Lucy),Ron Livingston(Roy Phillips),Ben Rosenfield(Willie Thompson),Michael Zegan(Benjamin Siegal),Erik LeRay Harvey(Dunn Purnsley)Margot Bingham(Daughter Maitland)Brian Geraghty(James Tolliver),Patricia Arquette(Sally Wheet)and more.The direction on Boardwalk Empire is brilliant and visual stunning,with the camera always moving with various shots making the show looking atmospheric and beautiful at the same time. Great direction.The theme song by The Brian Jonestown Massacre(Straight Up And Down)is fantastic and while the theme is electronic and different from the music on the show the theme is still great. There an amazing collection of Jazz music that is played throughout the series which goes with the energy and tone of the show.In final word,if you love the Gangster genre,Crime Dramas or period shows,I highly suggest you see Boardwalk Empire,one of the greatest shows ever made and an excellent and unforgettable classic that is Television at it's best. Highly Recommended. 10/10.


                
