Boardwalk Empire is definitely an HBO nighttime soap opera for guys. Especially guys obsessed with the mafia. Make no mistake, BE is not a documentary. It is pure entertainment. If you want real stories about the mafia and its history, then look no further than your local library and books from 25-30 years ago like Mafia Kingfish. If you want a tiny bit of history laced with a lot of fiction, testosterone, nudity, sexism, violence, politics, cheap CGI, Steve Buscemi at the helm, and a parade of different directors and screenwriters each week who weaken and ruin the plots and story lines, then this nighttime soap opera is for you.There are too many problems to list regarding BE. The major one is, like Madmen, BE fosters the idea that utilizing different writers and directors each week equals better stories. It does not. Instead, using different writers and directors ruins BE's story lines making them convoluted and its characters behaving like schizophrenic chameleons. I pity the poor, talented actors like Stephen Graham and Michael Pitt who are/were forced to step onto this rat wheel. Instead of being allowed to create, become, and maintain their characters, they are/were made to look and sound like caricatures. Is it any wonder the Season Finale of BE had only about 3 million viewers and averaged a gross audience of 6.6 million viewers per show during Season 5? Approximately 8.4 million people live in NYC. That means, basically, the rest of the country wasn't tuning in. And for good reason.The final season was the worst. The writer's could not come up with a creative and memorable ending. Instead, they gave us backstory-- backstory that should have been woven into the characters' lives in earlier seasons, or throughout the seasons. In addition, the writer's insult our intelligence by bringing back a very, very minor character to help end the story. An ending that was so unsatisfying, only a moron would admit he/she was content with it.Final note: Mr. Buschemi - as others have complained - WAS miscast.


                
So, I really enjoyed Steve Buscemi in movies like Reservoir Dogs and Fargo. I had high expectations because of him, plus all the positive reviews. Boy, was I disappointed. I could only get through the pilot episode, when I expected to enjoy the whole first season, and maybe more.The pacing was slow, probably to cover for a thin storyline. There really weren't any surprises. The jokes were not very amusing, and the constant dropping of F-bombs caused them to lose their sting. Two positive things I can say. The period sets were fairly impressive, and the music by Vince Giordano's band was pretty good.Two out of ten stars because I need to offset the high ratings. It's a three at best.


                
