Into Episode 3 of Season 3 and I just really don't care anymore. Too many incidental characters and story lines are spoiling the broth.Whereas with The Sopranos I felt an emotional attachment to the characters (as heinous as they were), I'm just not feeling it here. It's as if the writers don't have a seasonal, let alone a series arc in mind.This series continues to waste a great cast. On the upside, the set design and music are wonderful. The series really evokes the early '20s (not that I was there).Take some money from the art design budget and put it into some great writing.Which is not to say that this show is unredeemable. But the series needs to cut down on the incidental characters and flesh out a good "core" cast in much tighter plot lines.


                
After six episodes, I give in. So many great factors (Buscemi, most of the cast, sets, styling, cinematography, characters, relationships... the subject and the historical context... the little ideas, like the weird, devout FBI agent...the whole idea...) but it's just so slow and boring. At first I figured it was important to establish the scenario, and clearly they want to create complex characters and relationships, so they need a little time. But even after six episodes, almost nothing has happened. Such a pity it's such a waste of time. And the IMDb rating must be the result of manipulation. You simply cannot compare this with the Sopranos. Sorry IMDb, you have to find a way to protect your credibility and figure out how this has been done. This series is not rubbish, but no way has it earned a nine-star average rating.


                
The Untouchables smokes this slow moving, poorly acted tripe. I was anticipating something a lot better for $50 million. Don't get me wrong, it was all shiny and polished up with a coat of paint. But it's got nothing to show. First of all, Buschemi is NO LEADING MAN. I love his previous roles, but he can't carry this dinosaur. All of the other characters have no depth whatsoever. Is his butler comic relief? More like a stupid cartoon character. Don't even mention Sopranos in the same breath as this blunder. It was a refreshing take on an overworked subject, that really allowed the viewer to pick a character to empathize with and thus truly enjoy "the ride". All I saw was Nucky answer the phone, look upset, get dressed and go to the scene to solve the problem. It happens over and over.YAWN!!! It does make you wish for a drink though, just to numb the boredom.


                
To be honest I wasn't really motivated to watch this series but I thought I'd give the pilot a go. And as I write I have the second episode on. I can forgive series for taking it's time to get going with early episodes setting up for later and I can only go on what I've seen (the same way all the useless 10 star reviewers can as well). And from what I've seen, this doesn't have the finesse of other successful dramas on HBO, Showtime etc. It's not as grand as it thinks it is and thus actually plays out quite boring. Also technically this is a frustrating and lazy piece of work, bad editing, terrible audio, horrible inconsistent grading. Along with that some of the acting and accents are so bad they're surreal. Anyway it may turn out to be good but in all honesty I don't have the energy based on what I've seen to give it time.


                
So many rave reviews, yet such a bland portrait. I've seen it all before, although maybe not in quite such a lush setting, with such stylish costumes and decor. Many of the actors are miscast and the plot is hardly engaging, because it is much too episodic. The BBC series The Street is so much more engaging because it truly probes the characters and develops the neighborhood. Boardwalk Empire merely wets the appetite and titillates the viewer into anticipating more nudes and more violence, neither of which are viable substitutes for plot and character development. Here we just play the same tune over and over and over again. Very disappointing.


                
Good........ but please could someone tell me how a 1 and half year old actress can play the part of a distressed child. She was obviously distressed to a greater or lesser extent and if it was taught, then all the more worse. No matter how good this series is meant to be, the REAL distress of a baby boy or girl is NOT WORTH IT. Our children are more precious than that. Who thinks that the satisfaction of producers and audiences is worth damaging a child? Shame shame shame. According to me. Steve Buscemi is just a mouth; always staying calm while bodies are chopped up (in whatever film he so happens to be 'in'). What moron is not capable of doing that.......... Jeremy Irons, Leo De Caprio, Cathrine Hepburn, , Robert Redford, Charlton Heston, Robert De Nero and Paul Newman are good actors; not Steve Buscemi. Who the FCC$ is Steve Buscemi anyway???


                
'Godfather II' meets 'Mad Men' in Atlantic City, 1920, and rapidly grinds to a big-budget halt. No story turns to read here, folks.One of the themes in BE is how the rich have huge parties, while the rest of us struggle to put bread on the table. This theme applies to the production itself - there are huge setpieces, many locations, vintage artifacts and big sets galore (plenty of CGI), but what the audience really craves is good, nourishing drama - that doesn't need dressing up. To start with, BE provides drama in the form of gangland killings, (a lot of) sex and personal rivalry, but these elements alone can't sustain it. According to personal taste, you will stop caring about any of the characters sooner or later, because they are just 2-dimensional ciphers in the epic drama-documentary that BE comes across as.In the end, the only interest is in the not necessarily accurate vignettes of period detail, social history and actual events that BE, like Mad Men, is liberally sprinkled with. These don't disguise the fact that it's a not particularly interesting soap opera/melodrama, where characters only do things because that's what the script says. The characters have no discernible inner life, which is what would make for satisfying drama - they only have problems made by outside circumstances, not internal conflict. And they all overact to compensate.Which brings us to Steve Buscemi: In similar epic cable-born megadramas like The Sopranos, Mad Men and Breaking Bad, etc., one of the pleasing things was the use of a previously fairly obscure leading man. Steve Buscemi is an A-list, well-established movie gangster, and a fine actor; but like they said in 'Fargo', he's 'kinda funny looking', which doesn't fit with the part he plays here, of a corrupt, pleasure-seeking city finance chief, especially as his usual screen persona is so familiar. For me, he didn't work in the Sopranos for the same reason. A case of misguided stunt casting? Or Scorsese in his grandiosity not quite getting it again? Stephen Graham as a young Al Capone steals the show, btw.


                
