I just finished watching the seventh episode of this series and it'll probably be my last.Simply put, the show is terrifically boring. The creators think that peppering the show with gunshots and T&A will make up for what is an unbelievable lack of conflict or character depth. Not once in any of the episodes has the story been ahead of me and I'm usually well ahead of it, predicting every death and move in advance--sometimes even the location and method, though I've never read anything of the period. It's as if the writers have absolutely no vision whatsoever and they're terrified of treating their audience as adults.I am stunned that this title has been "renewed" for a second season after only one episode aired--and not even a particularly good episode at that. It seems that, with the exception of John From Cincinnati, every time I try a new HBO show I think the same thing: they cancelled Deadwood for this?! There was more conflict in every single episode of Milch's show than in the entirety of this snoozefest so far.It seems as though Scorsese--though merely an exec producer--has been off his feed for more than a decade. I was once a big fan--I've got an autographed Taxi Driver poster hanging on my wall--but, truly, this project presents him with absolutely no challenge. There is nothing for him--or anyone else involved, except maybe the set designer/decorator--to rise to.The cinematography and blocking are uninspired--the dialogue is pedestrian. The acting is fine but the players have nothing to play with. I'll agree with the other reviewer who said the music is terrible (something Scorsese used to be great at). I literally laughed out loud at the organ music cue in episode 7. One of the most ridiculous and ham-handed, overwrought cues I've heard in my life.Like last year's Treme, this show just never seems to find its footing. To say it ambles would be accurate, but is dangerously close to being a compliment, given the actual pace at which this unfurls. Good god, it's boring. Do yourself a favour and skip it. Or bring a good book.
Such a terrible, terrible waste of talent and money. How people can compare this yawn-fest to the amazing Deadwood is beyond me. The sets look great. The cinematography is great - or should be great but somehow isn't. It has Buscemi, a geek favorite for uncounted years, who has more than earned a place in the limelight, only to fail because of boring writing and a lack of vision on the part of the director(s). The choice of music, also, is horrid.After what was surely the greatest HBO disappointment of the year (The Pacific), it's hard to fathom that they failed again so soon, on such a big budget, with such talent on board.


                
Or at least good ratings.From Walter White to Tony Soprano and Nucky Thompson. One could go on and on and on. These shows are all based on low-lives with no standards and no sensitivity. What do they have in common? A greed to live a life of excess. Personally I'd like a bit of variety, would love to see some stories with characters, some individuality, some heroes with intelligence and a desire to be free from the rat race, live a simple, free and instinctive life rather than climbing the money ladder for a life of pointless luxury. Luxury does not equal freedom.I understand it is incredibly hard for anything alternative to hit the mainstream. The entire political-economic system depends on the greed of individuals.


                
I wanted to like this series. I watched Season 1 up to the eighth episode, but couldn't stomach any more of it. None of the characters felt real to me. The sets were very well done as to depicting the early 20's period of U.S. history in Atlantic City, N.J..;, although showing premature babies on display on the boardwalk was offputting.As to the characters, the first mistake is Steve Buscemi playing Nucky Thompson, the corrupt Atlantic City treasurer who lives like a king on his bootlegging and illegal activities keeping up the facade of respectability. He looks like Don Knotts yet is supposed to be a major babe magnet having so much sex, it is amazing he gets anything else done.Whenvever the story starts to drag, the writers resort to another nude sex scene with bare breasts aplenty.I bailed when I failed to form a connection to anyone in this project. There is some good acting, but that wasn't enough to hold my interest.


                
when i try to keep watching "Boardwalk Empire Season 5", i found myself often lost focus during the show. it dragged on with lot of unnecessary scenes, especially those with al capon and his thugs. i think hbo did a horrible job not to control the budget and allowed the production people wasting a lot of money on unnecessary scenarios, plots and scenes. now, in season 5, not only lot of messy senseless parties and killings, the screenplay further wasted lot of scenes on the guy's boyhood, his teenage and his grown-up. his past, his flashbacks kept mixing with his recent and present status. do we really need to know what his yesterday made him a guy of today. yes, it's somehow relevant but somehow not actually really important. this guy is not a great person, he got lot of flaws. his whole life is actually a mess. we don't have to know his past, and the screenplay writers should push him forward into the future instead of keep looking back. i just couldn't care less. yet hbo simply indulged itself in digressions. there were so many annoying moments that i just wish it didn't exist and have been cut away. this series has become less and less interesting."boardwalk empire" should learn something from "24" and/or "homeland", every new season is a brand new chapter and brand new challenge to the main character and the viewers, in the meantime, are also facing new challenging new situations. don't stay on the short boardwalk too long, because it's boring.


                
