Batman comes to life in his best incarnation yet with stellar voice work, stunning visuals, rich stories, and the perfect emphasis on the dark knight's detecting skills and humanity. Kevin Conroy, sporting a preppy high voice for Bruce Wayne and a scary low voice for Batman, nails the duality of the dark night. He gives the character edge, heart, brains, and wit. Surrounding Conroy are some great actors with distinct voices who follow his lead. Adrienne Barbeau(The Fog, Escape From New York), Ron Perlman(Hellboy), Ed Asner(Elf, also two other great, but short livid animated series: Spider-Man and Gargoyles), John Glover(Gremlins 2: The new Batch, Scrooged), Roddy McDowell(Planet of the Apes), Richard Moll(House, Night Court, Spider-Man), John Vernon(Animal House), and David Warner(The Ballad of Cable Hogue, The Omen, Gargoyles, Spider-Man) are perfect in their roles as is every other actor. The only major problem with the series is that it is too rich for a half hour. The best episodes are the two part episodes like Heart of Steel, The Cat and The Claw, Feat of Clay, and Two-Face. The series could have used more continuity as well. The bottom line is that this is about as good as can be and a real treat for any fan of Batman.
Now i have been a big fan of batman since the series came out in the 1960's. I liked that series but i didn't think batman was suppose to be like that. I always though batman had like a dark back round. Like when the comic came out back in the 1940's. It was a dark story, Bruce Wayne's Parents were murdered, everyone who lives in gotham is corrupted by crime and cops are also corrupted. the 1960 series never had this. I still like the series from the 1960s but the 1990s just made it the way batman was suppose to be. I loved it! it was everything bat man was suppose to be and you stil had your classic villains like the joker, the penguin, the riddler and 2-face. This was one of the 1990s better shows.


                
This show was great. What was unique about (among other things) was the fact that it didn't really deal with batman's origins, as the movie of the same name had come out a few years ago, and its sequel had come out the same year this show was launched. Also the animation was superb (except for the fact that Bruce Wayne always appeared fat in his regular clothes). Voice talents were also great, especially with Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) as the Joker. Also Batman's voice sounded like it truly would scare the s*** out of a thug if he ran into him in a dark alley. On top of it all, I'm a marvel fan, so it's hard to impress me with a DC Comics work, but they pulled it off. Truly amazing.


                
When most people read batman comics they head these voices that's how great it is. It also had great story for its day that still holds up


                
Before I start the review, I'd like to make a point. I'm not biased by nostalgia when I write these reviews. I'm not some 90s kid that has fond memories of a show, so I give it a really high score. I don't think Batman cartoons after the 90s were bad. I don't think modern cartoons are bad at all. I just base my review scores on how much I like a cartoon, regardless of age.So, Batman: The Animated Series. Claimed to be one of the greatest cartoons to ever be made. Are these people who say this right? Definitely. It's dark and gritty, just like we all think Batman should be. Sure, the lighter incarnations such as Brave and the Bold and Batman '66 are good, but they aren't Batman. Now THIS is Batman. It's not overly dark as some episodes. have humour in. It just isn't over-the-top humour like certain cartoons today have (I'm looking at you, Teen Titans Go). The voice acting was superb. Mark Hamill is the Joker. Kevin Conroy is the vengeance and the night, everyone has a good voice. The writing was good for the most part. It felt like you were reading a Batman comic. The character design was good (besides one, which I'll cover later). The villains were awesome, even Condiment King. However, this show has a few tiny flaws. My first problem is with Killer Croc. At first I didn't even recognise who he was. He just looks strange. He looks more like a Titan Thug from Batman Arkham Asylum. My second problem is very minor, and that's a lack of Batman lines in certain episodes. Just a couple of episodes should have more lines. It makes Batman seem not human.But really that's it. The show was great, and I really hope we get another like this. 9/10.


                
I've seen every episode of this show, and I've rated them all, there are some clunkers, but when this show was good, it was really good, when the writing was spot on, you could tell. This show covered themes like drug addiction, domestic abuse, broken families, revenge, gang wars, and coping with death in a time where other shows wouldn't even touch them, animated or otherwise. Many of the episodes still hold up to this day, and Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill have become synonymous with Joker and Batman, characters that will live on forever. Paul Dini and Bruce Timm crafted a colossus of animated storytelling with this show. I could go on and on, but I think you get the picture. Out of 85 episodes, I liked 71 of them. I thought 14 episodes were bad, and while that's still a low number, it's still something to take into consideration. Not every episode of this was incredible, but when it shined, it was brighter than the sun.
Batman: The Animated Series the greatest animation series that came from DC Comics.Many call the show the greatest animation series based off a super hero and it is with strong reason to believe too.Batman The Animated Series is a hit with both kids and adults that apply to every fan of the Dark Knight.The show just showcase what Batman is suppose to be and they did a phenomenal job with giving the characters of Batman justice. It also helps to have a superb cast and crew behind the series to make it one of the greatest animation series of the 1990sKevin Conroy as Batman/Bruce Wayne. When you listen to his performance to this day no one else has brought a more excellent job then Kevin Conroy he was born to voice Batman and no one has even come close to his performance he knows the character perfectly.Efrem Zimbalist Jr as Alfred Pennyworth was the right choice and he made Alfred a important figure in the series. Bob Hastings as Commissioner Gordon was the smart choice for the role because he brought the character to attention.As for the villains there was a excellent collection of villains many fan favorites too that made the show. Mark Hamill as The Joker without question Mark was born to voice The Joker and the fact he really puts his whole being into the character makes you respect his performance he just made the villain a more powerful legend. Richard Moll as Harvey Dent/ Two-Face just his voice work along makes you go WOW. Arleen Sorkin as Harley Quinn this character was original created for this series but has since become a fan favorite and with good reason. Adrienne Barbeau as Catwoman/Selina Kyle she was the perfect woman for the job. Diane Pershing as Poison Ivy she help bring a legend to life and make her a hit with the fans.The show also feature a well done job with Mr.Freeze (my favorite Batman Villain), Clayface, Man-Bat, The Penguin and others. The voice acting is just phenomenal you can tell in the voice performances that each actor really wanted to give it their all in their performances and it shows too. The cast really brought the characters to life The Animation is dark and matches the story line for the series each episode raise the bar to try and outdo each other. So many great episodes came from this series some of my favorites would be "Heart of Ice" "Feat of Clay" "Joker's Favor" "Pretty Poison" "The Last Laugh" "The Clock King" "Fear of Victory" "Two- Face" "Tyger Tyger" "Beware the Gray Ghost" "Terror in the Sky" "Joker's Wild" "Almost Got 'im" The intro for the series also was the brilliant way to set up the show and it work like a charm. The writers really brought the series to life along with many quotes that are regard as masterpiece quotes Trust me Batman: The Animated Series is a masterpiece a real classic and a series that really does a great justice for Batman and the fans. Check out Batman The Animated Series you'll love it I am Vengeance I am The Night I Am Batman!


                
I would have given this show a 10 if it had more appearances from POISON IVY and BATGIRL. These two characters truly deserve to each be spun out into their own shows. POISON IVY is simply the PERFECT villainess, gorgeous yet twisted, just like all of my ex wives! The feature which sets BATMAN so far above other shows of its ilk is that all of the villains have redeeming qualities. You find yourself constantly torn between loving to hate them or hating to love them. If you enjoyed the 1960s ADAM WEST version of Batman, you will definitely appreciate this show which is a bit darker, but still maintains a healthy tongue-in-cheek sense of humor throughout. The animation is a bit crude, but highly watchable and there are guest voice over appearances from a lot of really interesting actors, such as "Mr. Hand" from FAST TIMES AT RIDGMONT HIGH and Luke SKYWALKER himself. What more can one ask of a cartoon?


                
This cartoon series was a milestone in animation. This was no goofy superhero series with cardboard villains and comical sidekick animals, like Gleek from "The Superfriends." The stories were realistic, the action was pretty intense, and the characters, both heroic and villainous, were thoroughly fleshed out. "Batman: the Animated Series" went far beyond merely imitating the dark and serious tones of the 1989 "Batman" movie; it improved on the movie and its sequels, and evolved into a complex action drama, the writing and style of which far surpassed anything in real-life prime-time TV. This series rightfully deserves a reputation as a work of art. In short, this was not just fluff for the kiddies; it was an honest-to-goodness adventure series worthy of any grown-up's time.Since this show was a cartoon, I must also praise the animators for the style they chose to use for this series, as it accurately reflected the dark tones of the stories themselves. The colors of this show were muted, with splashes of grey and black. Some of the animation was incredible, especially with such villains as Clayface, where the artists could really free themselves from the usual restraints this realistic series imposed on them.I was pretty shocked when I first saw this show as a kid, because I expected the campy goofiness of the 1960s "Batman," complete with POW! and BANG! sound effects. I eventually came to accept and love this series as a unique and serious interpretation of "Batman." Again, I love this stuff more than the recent movies. I understand the comic books and the recent films actually TOOK and adapted original characters from the cartoon. This just shows how original and creative this show was. If you have Boomerang Channel, or have the DVDs be sure to watch and enjoy as many episodes as you can. This is truly a cartoon classic.


                
Not as dark and realistic as the film BATMAN BEGINS, "Batman: The Animated Series" was an innovative interpretation of the Dark Knight. It produced innovative episodes: "The Demon's Quest parts I and II", "A Bullet for Bullock", "Read My Lips", "The Clock King", "Feat of Clay parts I and II", "Two-Face parts I and II", "Sideshow", "Time out of Joint", "Bane", "Lock-Up", "Heart of Ice", "Nothing to Fear", "Mad as a Hatter", "Trial", "Fear of Victory", "The Strange Secret of Bruce Wayne", "Harley and Ivy" and "Showdown." There were also plain interesting episodes: "His Silicon Soul", "Baby-Doll", "Joker's Favor", "Perchance to Dream" and "House and Garden." With these kinds of episodes, it's hard not to like the Animated series of Batman. Great voice work from Kevin Conroy (Bruce Wayne/Batman), Mark Hamill (The Joker), Henry Polic II (Professor Jonathan Crane/The Scarecrow), Roddy McDowall (Dr. Jervis Tetch/The Mad Hatter), Michael Ansara (Mr. Freeze), Alan Rachins (The Clock King) and Robert Castanzo (Harvey Bullock)!


                
For me, this will ALWAYS be the best Batman animated series. I loved it as a child and I still love it, even in this day and age of lame-a** cartoons that we have nowadays. Man, it's cartoons like these that make me long for the "golden age" of cartoons. Whether you're a fan or not, this can be enjoyed by all ages. No cartoon that I know of has explored the psyche of Batman like this one, especially the sub-par, execrable "The Batman". Let's not even get into that one. Kevin Conroy is simply superb as the voice of Batman. And who can forget Mark Hamil ( of Star Wars fame) as the Joker? Interminably engraved in the minds of everyone with his sinister voice and catchy laugh. With so many memorable, well-thought out and exquisitely cinematic-like stories with twists and turns and brutal violence with heartfelt emotion and dose of humor, what's not to like? If you like Batman, or just want a trip down memory lane then this series is good for you in addition to Batman: Mask of The Phantasm. Both are great in every way.


                
... because this series developed some of the most famous Batman characters and spread the popularity of the comics.Batman The Animated Series developed: Mr. Freeze: before the cartoon he was just a useless character in the comic books. The cartoon developed him into the complex tragic hero whom we all know and love.Mad Hatter: the series actually gave him a backstory where he was madly in love with his secretary and tried to make her love him by mind controlling her Scarecrow: the series described what his previous profession was, that he was bullied as a child and actually revealed the meek side of him during 'Lock Up' The list goes on. This is a brilliant children's show, I can't remember any show similar to it while I was growing up. The stories were good, the characters had depth and even the villains were sympathetic. I'm a girl, and I really enjoyed watching a so-called 'boy's show' while I was growing up. It had a dark and morbid edge to it, and it wasn't dumbed down for children (that is perhaps why I liked it). It can be said that the show had a serious tone to it, but that made me feel as if I, a child, was for once taken seriously. I really appreciated it then.However, I must admit I preferred the first character designs to the revamped ones in 1994.This is a great series that is sorely missed and I wish future generations will get to see this amazing show, in spite of children's TV shows going down the drain these last few years.


                
This awesome animated Batman show stars the voice talents of Kevin Conroy as Batman/Bruce Wayne, Efrem Zimbalist Jr. as Alfred Pennyworth, and Bob Hastings as Commissioner James Gordon.What can I say about this show that hasn't already been said by everyone, I love this show! I first discovered this show on VHS, and loved the episodes I watched, which were Christmas With The Joker and The Laughing Fish. To be honest though, I didn't become a big fan of the show until only a few years ago when I first bought the show on DVD and started watching all of the episodes. It's kind of hard to sum up everything I love about this show, but I'm going to try.Okay, first off, I'm going to start out by saying I love the voice acting, phenomenal voice acting from a bunch of very talented actors who help bring the characters to life.Second, the animation and character designs. The animation looks amazing, and beautifully drawn, I love the film noir style, 1940's look of the show. The character designs look like they were taken right from a comic book and brought to life on screen.Next, the writing, I got to hand it to the writers for bringing so much emotional depth to the characters, especially what they did with Mr. Freeze in the Heart Of Ice episode, which is one of my favorites. They also introduced us to the character of Harley Quinn, which has since become a popular character in the DC Universe.Lastly, the music, I love the different theme music for the characters, and of course Danny Elfman's classic score for the opening, it's just perfection.Overall, there's really nothing bad I can say about this show. This is probably the best interpretation of the Batman character and mythos that we've ever had so far. I highly recommend this show to Batman and comic book fans alike. This show is just awesome, superb animation, writing, and voice acting, it's simply the best.
I saw this show on occasion back in the day and have to say, like the Superman cartoon that was made during this same era this was a very good show as well. It was a much better representation of the corny Batman live action show of the 60's with Adam West and Burt Ward and it never got as strangely dark or corny as the films of the 90's. You got to see many of Batman's best foes on the show with the Joker of course taking the lead and this show actually introduced a new villain who became so successful that she made her way into the comics, Harley Quinn. I never knew she was first introduced in this series until reading some stuff as her character is so polished and well done it just seems that she would have been introduced in comic format first. However, a couple of Batman's villains kind of drew the short straw and were vastly underused in this series too. Bane is one of these, however at the time he was a new character in the comics so I can see why they did not use him quite as much as others. Though if they can do such a good job with a all new character you would think they could write for a character that had been in a number of comics near the end of this show's run. Another character that was underused and there really is less excuse is the Riddler. I enjoy this character and I think he may of had three or four episodes and none of them really did a good job of using him. However, they did a wonderful job on Mr. Freeze, certainly compared to the horrid way he was portrayed in the movie "Batman and Robin". Mr. Freeze became my favorite villain during this show's run aside from the Joker. Speaking of the Joker, Mark Hamill does an outstanding job of doing the Joker's voice as does the man doing Batman. This is also the best Batman as it is just easier to make a person look in excellent shape and still have him not sound dumb as a rock. Michael Keaton looks to dorky as Wayne, Christian Bale looks the part, but some times you simply cannot understand what the man is saying. This one looks the part and sounds the part, to bad they can't find a guy who looks and sounds half as good as the one depicted in this show. Very good cartoon, they do not make them like this anymore.


                
Batman the Animated Series is definitely my favorite version of Batman! This is the Batman I grew-up with, like many people grew up with the Tim Burton films or the Nolan films.This Batman is the Batman who has everything. He has a great presence to him. Kevin Conroy is a big reason why this Batman is so memorable. Kevin Conroy probably has one of the most manly and intimidating voices I've heard. The problem with Christian Bale's Batman is that his voice is lame. This Batman also is a bad ass who is very witty and a great fighter. He is also a great detective. What the Burton and Nolan Batman lacked is the amazing intellect. Sure they were smart but not detectives. They are mainly fighter, and rely on their technology to solve the case for them. This Batman also does not kill. If you are not a fan of Batman killing people in Burton's Batman films, then you will like this Batman. This show is actually about Batman as well. If you do not like that about Burton's films, you do not have to worry about that here.Another character that warrants mentioning is the Joker. The Joker in this show is my favorite incarnation of the Joker. Other Jokers like Heath Ledger are great. However, nothing beats Mark Hamill's take on the character. He is very funny when he's being silly, and terrifying when he is serious. His laugh is probably one of the best laughs in movie and television history, in my opinion. The other villains are good as well. They are quite loyal to the comics. Other villains in the show are actually improve from the comics. The villains are very much from a comic book. If you are a fan of Nolan's realistic universe, you may not like this. However, if you are not a fan of that universe you may find this refreshing.The animation is great, especially for something from the 90s. The art, music,and atmosphere are well-done as well. The show has a darker atmosphere and is more serious. Even though this is marketed for children it has very adult and darker themes and elements. It also treats its audience with respect, unlike Batman Forever and Batman and Robin. Gotham looks very much like Gotham in the Burton movies. I really like this. This makes it more like a comic, even though this plays itself more serous. The action is also top notch.Overall this is a must see if you are a fan of Batman. This Batman has something for every kind of Batman. It is more serious and dark, unlike Batman and Robin and Batman Forever. However, it still plays itself more like a comic book, from the look to the villains. It is not as over-the-top as the Schumacher films, and not as realistic as the Nolan films. It is right in the middle. To be honest, that is what I like about it. It is also very smart, despite being marketed to children. Adults as well as children can find enjoyment out of this. Do not let the fact that it is animated sway you. If you have the chance to pick this up do it!
You know, I never seen this appearing on television like. I mean, I know I was only born when it was shown. Man, the 80's kids were lucky to watch better TV shows back then because now, we have such rubbish shows that I would just get depressed easily and im telling the truth here! I was so truly surprised for the fact, "the" Mark Hamill known as Luke Skywalker, played the King of Crime. Yes you know who, the Joker. You wouldn't believe it like, he doesn't sound like himself in this, omg that's funny and amazing at the same time on how voice actors can disguise their voices without you knowing it's actually them! I even seen that himself and Conroy are gonna play again as Batman and the Joker in "Batman:the killing joke". I hope it's gonna be good even if it's rated R lol! Anyways I loved the action, the music, the other villains and of course, Batman & Robin themselves. I can't tell how the series really made me feel good to be a fan of Batman. Well mostly, I love the DC girls such as Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy and Catwoman. They were just great as villains/anti heroes. You would tell that Batman in this, would love to choose them all as lovers if he could haha! Anyways im glad to have found out about this series, it's one of the best TV shows out there regardless of the years that it was last seen!
