Let me give you a quick synopsis of this movie. Ethan Hawke: "Blah blah blah blah blah." Judy Delpy (with French accent): "Blah blah blah blah blah." Actually, thats a little more interesting and doesn't take an hour and a half of your life, which you will wish you had spent doing something more interesting, like staring at the floor! Some of the shots of Vienna are nice, though it is too bad that the two self-involved, dull people keep getting in the way of them. If you like really boring vague conversations and listening to pretentious people try to be profound about life, love, etc., then you might like this movie. Otherwise you'll vomit on yourself (and maybe your girlfriend next to you, who is forcing you to watch it, and after you clean that up you'll break up with her, because you realize that she is also long-winded, vague, and pretentious, so the movie actually did some good by opening your eyes to that.) I kept waiting for the ax murderer to chop them up or aliens to kidnap them, anything to get them to shut up, but alas it never happened. Too bad.


                
Totally boring story about an Amarican student meeting an French girl in Vienna or: How can I put as much romantic clichés as possible in a movie. They are talking about nothing for 90 minutes while they meet every cliché in the book. Including, the drunken poet, discussing intellectuals, the nice barman and a night in the park. There is no real chemistry between the to leads and the 'look we are having fun acing' drips from each moment. I really don't understand how people can all for such a cheap and easy thrill.Terrible and silly movie.


                
One of the most difficult scenes in acting is when a fictitious character is to naturally recount an old memory.  Often in dramatics, an actor tells of some old memory with just a hint of averted eyes and awkward facial expressions.  It is difficult to act out the natural timing of facial expressions as a person taps their own memory.  In real life, we all do this with ease with our true memories.  But actors in a movie are dealing with make-believe, so there is nothing in their brains to be retrieved and it is very easy to see through the acting.From beginning to end, BEFORE SUNRISE is a movie with two main characters who do almost nothing but recount to each other happenings from their individual pasts.  Unfortunately, the actors are not up to this difficult task.Apparently, most of these many strolls down memory lane are meant to end with some clever insight on humanity.  About one in one hundred succeeds.There is no catchy music, no passion, and very little to maintain interest. The viewer's mind begins to ponder side items, such as the facial structure of the actors chosen for this movie.  The lead actor and actress have the same nose and chin and eyes.  They could be brother and sister.  And the palm reader looked to be the mother of the lead actress.Last, the script has some unmissable glitches.  The audience that was around me murmured much disapproval during the bar scene when the bar owner and the lead actor shake hands in a deal in which the bar owner would give the lead actor the mailing address to the bar so that the lead actor can later mail payment for wine given out.  Just when we expect the address to be given, the lead actor walks away and he and the bar tender act as if the deal never happened.The characters learn about each other in an impractical backwards manner in terms of the since of mating.  No digits are exchanged.  No addresses or details, ever.  Perhaps there is never enough time in BEFORE SUNRISE because the script gives highest priority to retelling of old memories -- old memories that are fake.  Unsatisfying.  Unentertaining.


                
too much of the talking. I don't understand why this movie is getting such a high ratings. I have read all the good previews on this piece of rubbish that I was eager to see it, so I rent the DVD and put it on one evening and let me tell you after five minutes (ok, sorry maybe ten) i was only forcing myself throughout the movie to finish the watching. I mean the pseudo intelligent American boy just could not shut his mouth all over the movie together with a french girl speaking English who could not shut it up either. The conversation after while was getting so boring that only good thing was the sightseeing of Vienna. They both tried so hard to be deep that it was actually shallow and unreal. I think that all that yapping throughout the movie actually killed its quality of being romantic. Please do not waste your time to watch this movie, there are better things to do.


                
I had to watch this thing twice: Once on a plane, where unfortunately, the windows did not open so I could not jump out. Then, when I got to my destination, I went to the theater with some girls in Spain, and it was named something else in Spanish so I had no idea I was going to watch it again until I was already there.The story is, some girl meets some guy on a train and then they spend the next hour and a half talking about absolutely nothing. If you like movies where two people sit there and talk the whole time and maybe fall in love, you'll love this. Everyone else should stay far away.I see there's a sequel now too. If I ever am on a plane over the Atlantic and that one comes on, everyone is getting wet.


                
I've read through a lot of other user comments about this film on here and can't disagree with all of you more. Are you people watching the same movie as me? I must admit many of Hawke's roles are pretty bad, while here he is pretty believable as a character, the rest of the film lacks in interest, creativity, and emotional attachment for him and Delpy. From the first 15 minutes of the film I can't wait for it to be over as their dialog is 'extremely' drawn out and monotonous; trust me, you 'will' lose interest in this film, unless you are the type who enjoys people complain and give you 'their' theories on life for 2 hours straight. Do not waste your time.


                
Pick a french girl, put her on a random travel, say a train from Budapest to Paris. But wait -- she's not your average french girl, after all, because she can speak PERFECTLY English. That's pretty uncommon for a country where the use of foreign languages is officially forbidden, but you don't want to be too picky, right? This is a movie after all! Now pick your average American boy, coming to Old Europe to meet his girlfriend -- but she is a really average girlfriend, one that comes to Old Europe for some kind of art study (we are allowed to think that this is not the real reason, or that art studies are useless - you choose); however, she is pretty average, so she ended up cheating on him and when he arrives, he soon realizes he's going to be dumped.He buys an interrail ticket and he too ends up on a Budapest-Paris train, only to bump into that not-so-average french girl who's still a student at Sorbonne because she doesn't feel like she's ready for a real life (and she's only 23 yo) Could they avoid falling in love? The answer is no. This is all the plot. The rest is about 90' of them getting closer, with Wien as a cute backdrop for their story.In this 'wannabe art' movie we can really see how nothingness can be stirred to fill up the standard Hollywood length of 100 minutes: two people chatting about nothing and trying hard to make it feel real.But this IS Hollywood: because there's not even a little bit of something real in this movie. It's a movie that leverages the dream that you, as a foreigner in a foreign country, could start chatting with a beautiful stranger and then fall in love.I could stand the cute 'what if' scenario, if only it managed to build up something for you to ponder - but there is no food for the mind here to be found.I watched 'Before Sunrise' out of curiosity because I've read so much good about it, but now I understand that the only people who cared about it are the ones who like to view themselves as 'romantic'.Look in the mirror: are you a so-called 'romantic' kind of person? then this movie is for you. Otherwise, keep away!
I watched this movies very soon on an advice of a friend who made me feel like I am missing a must see movie. It is really hard for me to understand why this movie is supposed to be one of the best love movies made ever. I kept watching through the end to find a reason behind overrated interest to the movie. Celine and Jesse..both are much more into pretending than falling in love,they keep talking about usual things throughout the movie and in the end make you experience what real boredom is. Only attractive point might be beautiful scenes from Vienna but this is even not good enough to give a reasonable rate to this movie.


                
I simply do not understand the "10 star reviews" on this film. A young man and woman meet on a train. They start talking and the man convinces the woman to get off the train and walk around Vienna with him until it's time to catch his plane back to America instead of her original plan, which was to take the train back to Paris.This initially somewhat charming "inciting incident" is then followed for what seems like 24 excruciating hours of babbling and rambling discourse that sounds like it was made up on the spot. I didn't care about either one of these people, although the female character initially seemed much, much more intelligent and balanced than the male character. And yet she too got into the blab-fest and started to drive me insane. The man was judgmental and critical and dismissive of almost everything and I did not find anything about him remotely likable.If you think it is interesting to watch people playing pinball machines, walking through cemeteries, drinking beer out of bottles, wandering up and down streets, all while making peculiarly mundane commentary and observations and comments about life, you'll have a blast. If that sounds like a cure for insomnia, you'll be sound asleep about 10 minutes in to it.Absolutely deadly.


                
Pure, unadulterated spectating hell:  plotless, over-sentimentalized, and one-dimensional, a tour de force of boredom, obviously deeply convinced of its own "insight", so let's throw pretentious in there for good measure.
I suspect that those responsible for this film's outsized rating on this site may also be held responsible for Ethan Hawwkee's status as a bestselling "writer".


                
This is singularly the worst movie I have ever seen. With a complete lack in plot, the only redeeming facet is a shining moment of honesty on the train in which they blatantly tell you that this will be a horrible film. I managed to survive the full length on only the dire hope that SOMETHING would eventually happen. I was disappointed. If you are considering renting, I suggest you go for ice cream instead.


                
Having seen this movie once before I was excited to watch it again. I remembered enjoying the dialogue, characters, and uniqueness of the plot. However, it is not good. It really isn't. This is a bad movie. It doesn't capture my attention, I'm bored, the dialogue though good, isn't enough. Perhaps this is the perfect movie for hopeless romantics who have nothing better to do than watch sappy movies. For a romantic comedy this movie leans far too much towards the romantic and far to little towards the comedy. The awkward interactions and revealing moments, the silences that say so much are all very real, but am I having a good time watching this? No. Will I come away from this with anything? No. The only reason I can understand someone watching this is because they have recently had their heart broken or are trying to get into a girls pants. As far as the former is concerned-this movie won't mend your broken heart. And for the latter-she decided before the movie started whether or not you were getting any, so don't waste your time or hers.


                
Saw this piece of crap last month and I have one suggestion for all; don't waste your money to rent this piece of garbage. I really can't understand how anyone could enjoy this movie and have a hard time getting it through my head why it was made in the first place. As a matter of fact, I don't know why I'm wasting my time even talking about such a lousy movie. The main characters acting as if they an ounce of intelligence is not believable. The movie goes nowhere and all copies of this movie should be destroyed.......blaaagh!!!


                
I usually don't do this but this time i couldn't help, it. Sorry for all you lovers of this movie, but i've seen love stories, and this is not it! This is a boring two way conversation about things that nobody cares except the writer and intellectual people. I was curious to know why the great rating and all, watched it, still didn't get it. Also, bad acting, bad sound and a few good shots of Vienna, that's it! Ah, and a good thing, it has a lot of EXTREME BOREDOM, i can see more happiness and joy looking to a blank wall during hour and half. To bad my one star rating don't mean anything to the high rating that this movie has. I am curious though to see the the rest of the trilogy (NOT)


                
One of the most difficult scenes in acting is when a fictitious character is to naturally recount an old memory.  Often in dramatics, an actor tells of some old memory with just a hint of averted eyes and awkward facial expressions.  It is difficult to act out the natural timing of facial expressions as a person taps their own memory.  In real life, we all do this with ease with our true memories.  But actors in a movie are dealing with make-believe, so there is nothing in their brains to be retrieved and it is very easy to see through the acting.From beginning to end, BEFORE SUNRISE is a movie with two main characters who do almost nothing but recount to each other happenings from their individual pasts.  Unfortunately, the actors are not up to this difficult task.Apparently, most of these many strolls down memory lane are meant to end with some clever insight on humanity.  About one in one hundred succeeds.There is no catchy music, no passion, and very little to maintain interest. The viewer's mind begins to ponder side items, such as the facial structure of the actors chosen for this movie.  The lead actor and actress have the same nose and chin and eyes.  They could be brother and sister.  And the palm reader looked to be the mother of the lead actress.Last, the script has some unmissable glitches.  The audience that was around me murmured much disapproval during the bar scene when the bar owner and the lead actor shake hands on a deal in which the bar owner would give the lead actor the mailing address to the bar so that the lead actor can later mail payment for wine given out.  Just when we expect the address to be given, the lead actor walks away and he and the bar owner act as if the deal never happened.The characters learn about each other in an impractical backwards manner in terms of the science of mating.  No digits are exchanged.  No addresses or such personal data perhaps only because the script gives highest priority to the retelling of old memories -- old memories that are fake.  Unsatisfying. Unentertaining.


                
Do we really, really need to watch what is essentially a guy trying to pull a girl for 90 minutes? If that is a good premise for a movie, put a hidden camera in a bar, and maybe you will watch something more realistic, entertaining, and even hilarious than this "romantic" claptrap. What this teaches you is that as long as you can fill up conversation with meaningless, pseudo-profound babble, the girl will get - like - really impressed, and end up - surprise - frolicking with you in a park by night. I mean, it's OK. People, young people, travel on Interrails and have encounters. We get that. But they are treated as the meaningless sexual encounters they are. Not bloated up to look as if they are The! Most! Romantic! Thing! Ever! Funny thing. I know several girls who DO find it incredibly romantic. Would these girls ever dream of spending the day in a foreign town with a stranger they just met? Especially if he had the same verbal skills as "Jesse", but none of the looks. Would they f... Hypocrisy at its best.
