What an incredibly brave and honest look at relationships. I've have never seen a film so precisely and brilliantly capture this kind of emotion and transfer it to the screen the way Before Sunrise does. What a crime that neither Ethan Hawke or Julie Delpy was nominated for any major acting awards, actually screw that! What a crime it was that they didn't both sweep every major acting award altogether and that Richard Linklater didn't get any recognition for the screenwriting or brilliant directing of his wonderful actors! Loved the ending (as much as it pained me at the same time), loved how after it all they go back and show every location that the couple shared together. Loved how the dialogue never wavers, never addressing the relationship directly but allows us to indirectly see a geniune bond forming through the body language, facial expressions, and the dialogue, ooooohhh the dialogue. Every bit of it plucked right from those top ten late night conversations we've all had with close friends whether it was serious or in jest. And respect to Linklater for keepin it real, the movie was rated R cause of a couple minor swear words? Could of easily been removed without really desecrating the film but he keeps it in anyways. Screw you hollywood, your 'romantic comedies', your Freddie Prinze Jr.'s, your 'take the glasses off the girl and now she's pretty' movies. This is real romance! This is what I come to the movies for, to think, to be provoked and to be swept away by the magic that only cinema can provide. Before Sunrise has single-handedly reminded me about why I goto the movies......


                
This has to be one of the most sincere and touching boy-meets-girl movies ever made. While "Rebel Without a Cause" and "Say Anything" deliver nice portrayals, this movies strips down useless subplots and Hollywood divergences. This movie focuses purely on watching the budding of a beautiful romance. You never doubt for a second that the film will lead towards the romantic pairing of these two people. You almost immediately sense the synergy and the chemistry between Jesse and Celine, and it is simply pure joy to watch them find it. This movie is mostly all dialogue -based. But, every conversation between these too is greatly intriguing. What makes this pairing so romantic is how real it is. How in all that conversation, while often having no real bearing on anything critical, you can sense the nuances as these two become more fond and trusting of each other. This is exactly they way you would dream that you meet that special someone. And what makes it so true is that it is not even too fantastic to believe. This could be what would happen if you had been confident enough to strike up a conversation with that person you noticed somewhere random. And what puts the icing on this film is the magnificent backdrop of Vienna in which this film takes place. It just adds to the feeling of romantic nirvana that the film suggests. And no matter how many times I watch this film, I don't think I will ever tire of that.


                
While traveling by train through Europe, the American Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and the French Celine (Julie Delpy) meet each other and decide to spend the night together in Austria. On the next morning, Jesse returns to United States of America, and Celine to Paris. "Before Sunrise" is one of my favorite romances, indeed one of the most beautiful love stories I have ever seen. It is a low budget movie with a very simple and real storyline, but the chemistry between Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy is perfect, and the dialogs are stunning. The direction is amazing, transmitting the feelings of Celine and Jesse to the viewer. I have just completed my review number 1,000 in IMDb, and I choose "Before Sunrise" for this significant number because it is a very special film for me. I cannot understand why this movie was not nominated to the Oscar, with such a magnificent screenplay, direction and performances. Yesterday I have probably watched this movie for the third or fourth time, and I still love it. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Antes do Amanhecer" ("Before Sunrise")


                
I want Céline and Jessie go further in their relationship, I want to tell them that they were made for each other, that in a lot of moment in the film we want they to die for each other. Their story is what we ever wanted and probably most of us never reached. This is about love but not stupid things like in "notting hills" or those kind of movie. This is life and i did believe in them, i did believe they were falling... This was so clever and touching. I have just finished to view it a minute ago and i m still there... I want to go to Vienna. I want to see them as soon as possible again.I have to say i was now becoming misanthropist and felt like if love was just a fake, a concept, but with this movie i realized that maybe somewhere, somehow and some when, something could really happen.I'm french and didn't know very well July Delpy despite Kieslowski "three colors : white"... Now i have to see her other works because she looks like an angel and got a perfect acting.i saw "before sunset" (the sequel in Paris) a few days before i saw "before sunrise" and their is no matter. They are both masterpieces. proof that you don't need to impress the eyes with technology to get pure feelings. I'm sorry for my English which i m trying to best.Franck in France


                
"Before Sunrise" is a wonderful love story and has to be among my Top 5 favorite movies ever. Dialog and acting are great. I love the characters and their ideas and thoughts. Of course, the romantic Vienna, introduced in the movie does not exist (you won't find a poet sitting by the river in the middle of the night) and it isn't possible to get to all the places in only one night, either (especially if you're a stranger and it's your first night in Vienna). But that's not the point. The relationship of the two characters is much more important and this part of the story is not at all unrealistic. Although, nothing ever really happens, the movie never gets boring. The ending is genuinely sad without being "Titanic" or something. Even if you don't like love stories you should watch this film! I'm a little skeptic about the sequel that is going to be released in summer. The first part is perfect as it is, in my opinion.


                
I had never heard of this film before a couple of weeks ago, but its concept interested me when I heard it: an American man meets a European woman on his last night in Europe and they spend the night together talking. It sparked my interest, but I never expected it to be this great. Before Sunrise is a masterpiece, and it's also one of the most romantic films on record. To my surprise, it completely lacked the cynicism of the 1990s. It's impossible to really talk too much about it, since there is no real plot, so to speak (although there are plenty of thoroughly interesting things you could talk about; it is sort of like My Dinner With Andre, where there is a conversation, but it's not JUST the conversation that matters), but let me just say, see it. SEE IT!


                
It was by accident that I was scanning the TV channels and found this wonderful film about two beautiful human beings who become attracted to each other in a very innocent and virgin like approach to each other.   Ethan Hawke (Jesse) "Tape" '01 and Julie Delpy (Celine) "ER" 94 TV Series (Nicole).  This gal and guy, will warm your very heart and soul and make you think deeply into your past relationships and how you really wish you had followed your hearts strings with a guy or gal you deep down loved and lost track of over the years.  Jesse and Celine have great conversation, and deep eye contact with a great magnetic explosion between the two of them.  I am looking forward to the SEQUEL to this film in 2004 and if you have viewed this film, you will feel the same way.


                
If you are a traveller, if there is a fire burning into your heart, if you'd call "home" every place on earth, but none of them can give you enough, if you are always looking for the next thing and if you believe the other part of your soul is somewhere out there, see this movie and you'll find out a little, but wonderful, piece of life sitting next to you.


                
i watched this movie 10 years ago. and have watched it on video an average of once a year since. it's the type of movie that's timeless, because the themes are universal, yet the stories and conversation are so personal. it's also one of the very few movies that capture you from frame one til the credits roll, despite the fact that there are, really, just two (very involving) characters. this owes a lot to the engaging acting by hawke and delpy, who make us believe that they are actually jesse and celine. this is also the first movie i saw that mentioned reality TV, and now, the phenomenon is rampant! i love the way this movie just envelops the audience in its space, and makes you think, however jaded you may be, that you are one of those characters. it also made me want to ride the train around Europe! i have not met anyone who has not been able to relate to this movie. maybe that speaks about myself, my friends, or just the sheer genius of this movie.


                
There are many people in our lives that we meet only once in our lifetime, but for some reason or another we remember those persons for the rest of our lives. These once in a lifetime friendships occur between people with long distances between and there are always some natural reasons for why we don't meet these people anymore. We don't always even know their names, as we are never presented to each other, and sometimes we even forget to ask what their names are. It's funny how common humanity makes occasional friends and we like to keep it as such, because reuniting might spoil fond memories, or we don't know do they. We are too afraid to check that out.The movie 'Before Sunrise' just caught me watching it. I never had intention to watch it through, but because the discussion between the couple seemed interesting, I gave a look for the rest of the film. I didn't know what to expect from it, but nor did the young couple. They had time to discuss with each other until the sunrise and anything could happen before they had to separate. I believe this film has had good reviews because the situation is something that everybody on this planet has at least once or twice lived through. It makes us all think about all those people we have met only once in our lives.


                
Before Sunrise has many remarkable things going on, almost too many to fit into one review like this, but it's suffice to say that it's one of the most observant character studies of the nineties, maybe even in all of contemporary cinema, to be observant not about love, per-say, so much as it's about a human connection. How does one fall in love at first sight? No one does, at least that's deep down the consensus that Linklater wants to show with his film. And *yet* there is the possibility of as intense a connection, of a bond that can form in those that are young and with many ideas that can be expressed articulately and with a breadth of cynicism and is somehow very tender and true at the same time. Linklater here gives us the story of Celine and Jessie, a French girl and an American boy who get off the same train heading to Vienna, and on the way there start to talking about things, at first arbitrary, then personal (Jessie seeing death for the first time in his great grandfather). Jessie persuades Celine to go along with him on a night out on the 'town', in Vienna, until his plane the next morning.Before Sunrise gives Jessie and Celine, in the midst of the gorgeous Vienna scenery and locales to go on and on about subjects that have a lot of importance, and in a sense is about the act of having conversations, of what it's like to watch people having one leading into another and another. Here it's often about relationships and commitments, as Jessie and Celine tell stories sometimes somewhat inconsequential, or seemingly so, and another that may tell a lot about their essential qualities. We hear confessions of desires for other loves, or what weren't really loves, of being part of a family or part of an upbringing that may or may not inform how you'll love your life, of what it means to believe or not believe in some religious form, or just to have some connection to any faith and the soul (I loved the bit about the quakers in the church), and sometimes laced with cynicism or skepticism. Jessie may be more responsible for that last part, but what's fascinating about the film is that it's never exactly cynical itself, just commenting upon cynicism that lays in the concerns of men and women at that age of their lives.Meanwhile, it's always great to see Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy in these roles, where they're not incessantly annoying in that 90s Generation-X mode, but are the kinds of people where if not in the central conceit of the film, which isn't a bad one at all but a necessary one, one might think to find walking along the streets of a city somewhere. The conceit is that of an old romantic picture ala Brief Encounter, only here intimacy is expressed in the central characters either between each other, where sweet asides are actually acceptable ("I have to tell you a secret", Jessie says, and then leans in for a kiss, ho-ho), or in the little moments that pop up with other people along the way. I loved the scene with the poet, where it's very cinematic a thing to suddenly find a random romantic bit player in the midst of a romantic picture with such beautiful words at his disposal, or with the palm reader and how the reactions from Jessie and Celine are that we might share, but really are seeing them do it first-hand. All the while Hawke and Delpy embody the roles interestingly- we can see how neuroses are being formed already for their adult lives- as it may lead off into the future...Featuring splendid cinematography and a script with an ear for natural wit and a true sense of what it means to have a moment of happiness, however self-contained, as it may lead into something more. Who's to say you can't suddenly be attached to someone, if only for less than 24 hours, and be that much more attached than a married couple? This is perhaps Linklater's thesis, but there's more to it than just that. It's a very dense film, and one that will have me calling back to it repeatedly. One scene especially, which is both cheesy and brilliant is when the two of them are talking 'on the phone' in front of each other mimicking their expositions might go to the other's friend. A+


                
Seen this many a time just to fall in love with it. It's easily one of the best romantic movies I have ever seen. Now romance need not be just physical but conversational, and this movie drives all way through in conversation between a couple, a pair. When I saw it first time my enthusiasm was only if the boy-girl be together or part. Once I saw if for first time, each time I was more in love with the conversation they had. The story, the plot is simple its a boy meets girl and we have got to see a romance budding like a blossoming flower that is gonna be so very beautiful the next dawn. Now, had the conversation be kiddish and childish as they happen in our marriage looks (typically Indian marriage looks) where the boy and girl as each other their interests, their likes and dislikes, this could have been a bore, the conversation is so very intriguing ranging from what pisses you off to how we dream our own world to be.It's all about Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy) and what a day of a lifetime it was for them so it shall be for us, I promise for us if we care to watch such movies with a ear and a heart. Now, there are so many subdued underlying themes in this that can be found if we sit and just explore even a poem on milkshake seems to be saying something about a lifestyle. This movie is more about life than about anything else. It's a must watch for all those who just love the love we want to have or we are already having in our own lives. Just have time for this and get your ears for words seem like music all through.Just love it and will keep loving it. It's 5/5 for one of the best romances ever.


                
This is truly truly one of the best movies about love that I've ever seen. Closely followed by none other than "Before Sunset", which technically isn't another movie at all, since it's about the same two people and the same romance.This is "love" in the real world. OK, that's only if most people are as intelligent and eloquent as the leads in the movie. Reading the other reviews, it pleases me to know how so many other folks are crazy over dialog-based movies as well. And this is what makes "Before Sunrise" so good. The dialog is perfect. It's so real, so engaging and funny. It's hardly a surprise that Jesse and Celine fall in love, 'coz you fall in love with them at the very same time.My favorite scene is the one in the coffee shop, where they pretend to phone their best friends, with the other pretending to be said best friend. It's PERFECT. Brings you back to the very moment when you fell in love for the very first time in your life.I must say that if you have a choice, do watch "Before Sunrise" before watching "Before Sunset". If like me, you watched "Sunset" first, it's hard to shake off the feeling of pity and sadness for the two young lovers throughout the entire show.Once again, the greatest romantic movie in my books. Wonderful acting, excellent script, and beautiful locations. Young love, at it's best.
First let me say that Before Sunrise, like all movies, is NOT a movie for all tastes. It appears some folks are less smart to acknowledge this fact, but it is remarkable to contemplate the kind of outright dislike this small harmless movie generates from some people.  For me, like most folks here, Before Sunrise struck a deep chord in me, I was truly stunned, moved, inspired by it. This is  a movie that ultimately benefits from more than one viewing. It creates some of the most awesomely unforgettable feelings and emotions you can possibly imagine. It is impossible to imagine this world without ever thinking about the kind of inspirational feelings I got from it.The movie works as a communion of two fragile souls that are starting to get to know each other. It is very intelligent and inspiring, not so much in how one conversation necessarily ties into the next or the significance of the topics of Jesse and Celine's discussions, but rather the little nuances, the perfectly articulate responses they provoke from each other. It captures an honest, romantic, yet fleeting human emotion that is starting to blossom in the awesomely sublime Viennese milieu; it convinces us that their evanescent relationship might be the greatest compliment in the world. And what happens after that night is open for debate, but I never doubt that they won't each other again.The facile comments by RockytheBear and the below user are hopeless examples of a doctrinaire dissenter unwilling to accept and respect those who love this movie.See it and it may change your way of life.


                
Before Sunrise is the sort of movie that is very rarely made. The entire film is based on the conversations of two characters, who meet accidentally and gradually begin to like each other. There are no supporting actors of any sort. Apart from cameos and extras, the entire film is just two people walking the streets of Vienna and getting to know one another. This is perhaps the films greatest strength, its ability to keep you draw into what is just the regular conversation of two people. There are no special effects or the typical hollywood style soundtrack.Elegant and Simple. One of the most remarkable films of the 90's.


                
Before Sunrise is the tale of an American who sparks a conversation with a French woman on a train in Europe.  From there the two spend the entire day and night together getting to know one another and falling in love.  Before Sunrise is a beautiful and romantic tale of two strangers who fall in love, but must part after only one night together. The flick has plenty of talk, but is never a bore.  Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy are great in the leads, its hard not to love this flick or the stars.  A great date flick and a romance that even touched the heart of a hard core horror fan such as myself.  Check it out!


                
"Before Sunrise" is a totally likable film. It really is a very simple story of Jesse and Celine meeting on a train --- him proposing that they should get off the train at Vienna and spend time together.Ethan Hawke as Jessie and Julie Delpy as Celine engage from the first scene to the last and the pressure is on them because they are in every shot.Linklater is not afraid to let us be irritated by them either -- when they almost have an argument about the fortune teller is beautifully perceptive.It is a movie that resonates with strong feeling as they start to fall in love so does the audience with the characters.Ethan Hawke really came into his own with this film and Julie Delpy was the new french star actress.A moment of utter inspiration is when we return to the landmarks of Vienna where their romance was blossoming without the two of them being there the following day -- poignant.
Along with one other film, this film and its sequel have moved me more than any others. Many great comments have been posted here. I would add that repeated viewings of the film reveal to me that it's only Jesse who's ambivalent about turning the night into something lasting. He's from a divorce background and seems to want to keep an image of himself as a footloose kid. You can see it in the way he walks away jauntily and youthfully from the train station after they part. It's not so much a "guy thing" as personal psychology. Celine is from a happy home and has no ambivalence--she wants them to be together and stay together. It's almost too painful that they lose each other for nine years, and that Jesse comes back six months later but doesn't find her there. The film superbly uses imagery and music to evoke the deeply sacred nature of the love that they find. Yes it is "romantic," but also realistic--sometimes people do meet who are wonderful matches for each other. In their youth and relative innocence and inexperience, they're swept into something mighty and profound. The film's exceptional blend of rapture and pain comes from the suspense of not knowing if they (Jesse) will be smart enough to make sure they hold onto this connection. Of course, this is what makes the ending of Sunset such an overpowering relief--at the very least they'll remain in touch and know where each other is. I think we're dealing here with rare works of art because of the balance and blending between the finest of detail on the surface and the deepest of profundity and poignancy in the background. After the predawn love in the park, we see the mundane, sun-drenched city, hear the harpsichord and the church bells, see them sitting at the base of the statue with her resting her head in his lap--all superb, beautiful, and exceptionally moving.It's a great moment when they're having "the conversation" about whether they'll stay in each other's lives, and they seem to reach a sad conclusion, and then the Strauss waltz starts playing in the background. This is "risky" and would be sentimental in a less-great movie. In this movie it works wonderfully. It's also wonderful that so soon after they meet, they start talking about death and visit a cemetery. This is because they both sense, intuitively, that they've met a person who deeply resonates for them, someone with whom they can talk about anything--they comprehend all of life and even death for each other. Watch the film more and you start to see how metaphysical it is. They sit in the church, they hear the church bells in the morning, they talk of the afterlife, birth, reincarnation, and all the metaphysical questions. They are "everything" to each other. In other words, simply and prosaically, they're people who could be life-partners and be happy with each other, with all that entails. Such things happen, after all. They almost lose all of it, but by the end of Sunset have regained at least part of it.


                
'Before Sunrise' is an example of cinema at its purest, simplest and most sincere form. How can I start describing it? Shall I start with the dazzling locations? The beautiful score? The stupendous screenplay? The breathtaking dialogues? The vivacious cinematography? The terrific direction? The excellent performances? Linklater is clearly a very versatile director. The way he's put everything in this film together is outstanding. Even though I'm familiar with Europe, the way he portrays the locations makes me want to visit those places. Throughout the film we see Jesse and Celine walk through the streets of Vienna and Linklater wonderfully returns to the same places in the end and even though both the characters have left for their respective current destinations the one feels their essence as if walking down memory lane.The development of the bond between Celine and Jesse is shown in a very subtle form. We can easily see how they are falling in love by noticing the way they look at each other, the way they talk to each other and the way they touch each other. The dialogues are sheer magic. The exceptional combination of humour, philosophy, spontaneity and subtlety brings a uniqueness about its treatment and yet it feels fascinatingly familiar. A charismatic Ethan Hawke and luminous Julie Delpy deliver natural performances. There is a sizzling chemistry and it is very easy to lose sight of the fact that they were acting. I feel both these two extraordinary actors are criminally underrated.The soundtrack marvelously stays in tune with the film. The cinematography guides us through the city as we walk along with Celine and Jesse, participating as silent observers without them being aware.'Before Sunrise' is sublime poetry. It is a must have for my DVD collection and the soundtrack for my CD collection. I will surely be revisiting it many more times as I know there will be something new to discover during each viewing.


                
This is a wonderful film; warm, sincere and beautifully made with moments and images that stay with you long after the perfect ending.It was recommended to me by an old university mate who labelled it his favourite film ever and who insisted that I watched it too as it would 'make me cry, change my life and make me happy.'  I was instantly intrigued and he was absolutely right!  I've since watched it, bought it and included Vienna in a month's inter-railing around Europe. I could go on and on about so many of the scenes and how perfectly Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy capture the wonder and excitement which comes with the unexpected meeting of someone who touches you and steals your heart. Someone with whom the simple act of getting to know them becomes something magical and with whom a day spent chatting and sight-seeing can become other-worldly and never to be forgotten.  Timeless and universal insecurities, emotions and moments are naturally and effortlessly portrayed by the leads between whom there is a tangible chemistry which is a joy to watch. I could watch this film over and over again.  There is always something to savour as you immerse yourself totally in this captivating love story. Thank you Richard Linklater for this different and romantic film - and thank you to my friend for the recommendation xxx


                
I love this film. I love it to pieces. I saw it on a movie theater some 4 years ago, and I have never quite forgotten it. Whenever I see an elderly couple, I am reminded of one of the first lines of the film: "When people grow up, men lose hearing on the high tones, and women lose hearing in the low end. That's why it's so difficult to get along". Simplistic? Maybe. Beautiful? Beyond any shadow of a doubt.The idea of a night in Vienna with someone you just met, falling in love and waking up to a very different reality is so full of hope and sadness. The characters know that everything will be over at sunrise, and yet they risk having a heartbreak, rather focusing on having the best night of their lives. This valiant approach makes the movie so much harder to take at the ending, when reality strikes and tears flow from my eyes.Movies should always be THIS good.


                
SPOILER WARNING:the following review might contain information that readers could interpret to be a spoiler, although the ending is not revealed of course.This is unquestionably the greatest love-story ever made, a movie without action, entirely dedicated to the development of a love between 2 students from USA and France during their 13 hours in Vienna, walking and talking. According to another Internet film-review site this is the best "remake" of the classic movie "Roman holiday" and any further attempts for remakes could not be better.The only things that interrupt their talks are very short meetings with people in the streets, but luckily these are very short, as they do not contribute much interesting to the film.I liked the parts where people speak German to eachother, not those that speak English to our couple. It doesn't seem realistic, compared to the rest of the film. The greatest merit of this film is that they talk like in reality.We start to believe we are with them as friends.Also the photography and editing (long shots) contribute to this feeling. A lot, if not all other romance-movies are made accordingto the same predictable story-line: people meet, get attracted, but always there's some dramatical event upsetting their relationship before everything ends well. Fine examples of other films filmed in Europe are "French kiss", "Only you" (1994) and "Romance on the Orient Express". But "Before Sunrise" positively differs from these in that the story-line is far more realistic and it doesn't look like a promotionfilm for these countries like these others. Actually we get to see little of the largest tourist attractions of Vienna. This film entirely depends on the chemistry between the 2 actors and they play their most realistic roles. Ethan Hawke's role compares with "Great expectations" in which he also falls in love with a woman who seems to be beyond his reach (played by Gwyneth Paltrow there).Celine seems to be the more mature and intellectual person of the two. The story is highly gentle, passionate but without music so it's not as immediately evident that something great is happening here between these two.The topics of their talks match with the locations. The film looks realistic but when watched closer one would notice several facts that show that this is still a story that could not have taken place this way in reality. The director (who is the co-writer) makes them travel all over Vienna in a way a normal couple could or would never do and there are some factual errors.Just to mention a few   (you can easily spot more): when they arrive at the station the clock shows it's 8.30, yet they meet 2 men who tell them the museums are closing.Celine says in the train that she is terrified of flying yet she has studied in Los Angeles. The church where they go is not open in the evening, but THEY get in. They travel a total of some 35 miles if you calculate the distances between each of the locations and they travel twice a few miles south after a visit to the centre. Also strange is that they only once talk about something they see during their walks, as if Linklater didn't know where he would film this story when he wrote it or he wanted us only to concentrate on the story. Remarkable is their tendency to compromise and reach an agreement on a subject. There's no big conflict, just the mutual acceptance of eachother and their vulnerabilities. This also doesn't seem terribly realistic to me when you see how different their background and characters actually are and given the fact that they only have 13 hours (so why would 2 people try so much to do what it normally takes to develop a relationship?).But what IS believable is that they at first hide certain things and then change their stories when they see they can let go all fear For me the best parts are at the pinballmachine,as you can see this was partly improvised (you can't write a script in which you know how the balls will roll) and the narrow alley where Celine says my favourite line "If there's any kind of magic in this world it must be in the attempt of understanding someone sharing something". This also explains the above-mentioned willingness to compromise. The end is not very believable and in contradiction with the maturity they have in the whole film. I don't think many people would do what they do at the end. This film tries hard to be realistic and unrealistic at the same time. Nevertheless it is a film I keep watching over and over again as there are no others with such depth in the talks and such sympathetic characters. My only objection against the characters is the profanity Celine has in her talking (but just 3 times).Quite strange,you'd expect that more of this American man, but he is more thoughtful in his use of words.This rates 10/10 for me because of how addicted I get to watch this film again and again and my longing to see the places where they walked.
This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  I don't think I could ever get tired of it or not be moved by some part of it.  The story is so simple, but I've never seen or heard of another movie like it -- a document of two people meeting on a train in Europe, deciding to spend the day with each other and falling in love.  There's a line in the movie which goes:I believe if there's any kind of God, it wouldn't be in any of us.  Not you, or me... but just this little space in between. If there's any kind of magic in this world, it must be in the attempt of understanding someone, sharing something. I know, its almost impossible to succeed, but... who cares, really? The answer must be in the attempt.The movie is filled with intelligent lines like this between two intelligent, likable, complicated, confused people, just contemplating life and each other, which just hit me with their truth and beauty.  It sounds cornball, I know.  Ultimately, Before Sunrise may be nothing if not a test of how sappily romantic you are.  But I think objectively it succeeds because it walks the line so artfully between realism and romanticism, and I think you have to be a little bit of both to like it:  knowing how unlikely it is for a stranger on a train to change your life, but allowing for the possibility, and rooting for people who take it when it comes.There's a voyeuristic element to the film, like My Dinner With Andres, or a documentary, where you're just listening to people talking, and it wouldn't be anything worth mentioning if it weren't so beautifully written, and completely believable.  I normally don't like Ethan Hawke, but he's very good in this.  And if you're a red-blooded male, you have no choice but to fall in love with Julie Delpy.  A must see.


                
Before Sunrise is for sure one of the most important romances in the history of film. The Richard Linklater movie not only surpasses the expectation of its cheesy poster, the cliché tag line or the absurd simplicity of its premise ("A young man and woman meet on a train in Europe, and wind up spending one evening together in Vienna", on IMDb), but actually does something remarkable: makes the audience believe in those people. Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy star, and their performances make Jesse and Celine two of the most fleshed-out, three dimensional characters I've ever seen on film. Nowadays, we are used to the Nicholas Sparks formula, in which characters are defined only by one or two particular traits in their personality, and the way they act and speak and show their feelings is clearly dictated by the story. In Before Sunrise, the characters are the story and for that, they dictate the shortcomings of it, which makes for a much more pleasant watching experience, and one that feels a lot more genuine. Even the most "movie moments", like when the couple first meet on the train and Jesse asks Celine if she wants to join him on a tour across the Austrian city, are handled with a superb sincerity and spontaneity thanks to Linklater's minimal character-driven direction, Hawke' and Delpy's excellent performances and their chemistry with one another, which honestly made me think they were married in real life, and, of course, the magnificent screenplay by Kim Krizan and Linklater himself, that basically turns this run-of- the-mill romance into one masterpiece, taking its simple premise and turning it on its head, and just making something beautiful, something full of heart and, most of all, something unique.


                
I am amazed by this movie. That is surprising considering the fact that there is not much that occurs in this movie apart from talking. Before Sunrise is a romantic movie in which two people meet in a train and decide to spend a day together despite the fact that they just met and are unlikely to see each other ever again. The performances from Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy is real and not exaggerated like we see in a lot of movies. The entire film seems like it is taken from our lives and we can totally relate to the characters and the circumstances that they are in. The movie is filled with wonderful ideas about life and the meaning of it. Richard Linklater must be praised for making a movie like this and I would love to see movies that are similar. A good screenplay is the cornerstone of any great movie and Before Sunrise is no exception. An interesting aspect of this movie is that the entire film takes place in a 24-hour time span. This movie must be seen if you like sensible movies and a realistic story.


                
