This is one of those ideas that looks good on paper but is a gigantic bore on film. Bore? No, worse than that - major annoyance. You follow a couple through a day as they meet, become attracted to each other, walk around, talk, share ideas and experiences and feelings and experience love. Aww, ya can't not like that, right? Well, yes, you can. After half an hour I wanted to run out screaming. They may both be attractive young actors, but as time went on and I had to watch their faces FOREVER, without a break, without anything else breaking the focus, I couldn't stand seeing them any longer. And their voices, their voices! endlessly yakking away so earnestly, so incessantly, started to sound like fingernails scratching on a blackboard. I just wanted them to shut up. Then there was the look on their faces as the listened to each other, their faces responding to every nuance, listening so intently, so yearningly, with so much empathy and sympathy and understanding and two hearts beating as one ... Help! Let me out of here! Is this love? Sure, probably it is, but if it is, it's definitely something to be experienced, and enjoyed as a participant, not watched as an outsider, especially not watched so long and so closely as this movie forced you to do. You know when lovers call each other "pookie" and "snookums" and "koochie," how it's terribly affectionate and heartfelt and meaningful to them but you want to retch and just get away as fast as you can? That's how this film affected me. I still shiver at the thought of it. I'm not sure I'll be able to enjoy another movie with either of these actors in it.


                
This is like eavesdropping on a conversation on a European train in the summer months. Only it's even more banal, even more pointless, and even more inept. I guess we can all relax how: Rick Linklater's been to Europe!Hawke and especially Delphy: there's nothing wrong with them - but you have to understand the premise of this one before you take the plunge. It's going to be stupid conversation followed by stupid conversation followed by stupid conversation. That's it. You don't get more, Bubba.They say a work of art should aspire to communicating something that cannot be communicated in words. The movie communicates nothing - it is boring. It is worse than every dumb conversation you've overheard at Gare du Nord or in Hamburg or whatever city you want to pick. It's trivial, it's banal, and it's not particularly sophisticated at all. And the work of the two principals can't change a thing.I will go this far: anyone who thinks this is class movie making needs to get out more. Anyone who thinks this movie is good is a bloody idiot.


                
