It seems I am in the minority here but I found this movie over-calmingly tedious. It's starts well, the meeting on the train and the intriguing possibility of what may happen when two strangers meet by chance is alluring but once they start wandering around Vienna it's when it starts to get boring. The dialogue is just the kind of naive, wistful, cod-philosophical nonsense that young couples on their first date come up with to impress the other partner. Fine if you are trying to get laid but it makes for rather irritating viewing. After a while I was more interested in the scenery than what was going on with the main characters. By the end I just wished they'd shut up and get on the damn train! It's not that I don't have a romantic streak or appreciate dialogue based movies, there are many good examples of this type of film, it's just that I expect not to almost fall asleep during it.


                
Before anyone could accuse me of not liking this film because I'm not romantic let me tell you that I love romance. The more disgusting it is the more I like it. I liked the basic idea of two strangers falling in love in a nice Vienna scenery. But even beautiful Vienna couldn't save this movie. Well, American guy and French girl meet on a Budapest-Paris train (I'm not sure if there ever was a direct Budapest-Paris train, but whatever, there are direct Budapest-Vienna trains and that's pretty much enough for us). The boy convinces the girl to get off the train with him in Vienna and spend the rest of the day with him. Sounds sweet, right? From now on the movie is nothing but talking and talking and talking. Which wouldn't exactly be bad but in 9 scenes out of 10 they are talking so many deep-wannabe nonsense that made me have a slight nausea from about the 15th minute. I would have loved this movie much better with some likable, not-so-smart-ass characters. Maybe I will give a try to the sequel Before Sunset (God save me it's also an 8, I hope it's a much deserved 8). But before that I need some time to recover.
I bought this movie as a double feature with its sequel, "Before Sunset", because my sister told me that I'd like them.Not knowing what to expect, I put the disc in... and waited... and waited... and waited, as the actors did a lot of talking.The central characters met by chance on a train, and spent a night together in Vienna before each had to move on to separate destinations. From my perspective, it felt like a thousand and one nights.The character of Celine was what you'd expect a stereotypical young Parisienne to be - stars in her eyes, dreamily romantic, believing in things mystical, while he was the cynical American who shot down everything she found special. So what did she see in him, I ask? They talked about how they 'connected', but they didn't appear, to me, to be connected at all. I didn't see two characters into whom I could become immersed, or believe their developing passion. All I saw were two actors.As a general rule, I wouldn't go out of my way to watch romance movies. That is not to say that I am not capable of being moved by one that is well-cast and well-made. There are many that have stirred my emotions, some even to the point of tears ("An Affair to Remember", for example, which this kind of takes a page from). But not this one. The Kleenex was left undisturbed in its little box, this time.Maybe the other users who've given this movie its high rating are hopeless romantics who'd cry over a sentimental TV commercial. I don't know. I don't mean to demean them in any way, but maybe some people have a lower 'romance' threshold than others...I simply could not get involved with the characters. They didn't do anything for me but leave me cold.The reason I gave this a 4 out of 10 instead of a 3, is for the Viennese scenery.Watch this if there's nothing else on, and if you're doing something else at the same time so that you're not too bored.


                
This film is 90% dialog. And the dialog is not at all convincing in the given situation. It is too contrived, too pseudo cleverly intellectual, it is irritating and not at all romantic. Whenever Linklater switches to body language (the looks between the couple in the music booth) and purely visual shots (the morning scenes without actors) one begins to feel the deeper emotions that would be present in the given situation. But these moments are way too few and they are drowned in the veritable deluge of "adolescent" conversation between the two main characters. Now I will go and see the next episode "Before Sunset", to see if the director himself has picked up on this grave shortcoming of "Before Sunset". If he has, part 2 might well be a really nice film....!


                
The movie is overrated and , basically, flat in the sense of nothing much happening. It is a 2 star movie, so beware. It started all right but it does not develop into anything worth excitement. I watched it because of its ranking in IMDb and I got burned.


                
I watched this movie without any preconceived notions and approached it with a good amount of respect for Ethan hawke and his acting capabilities. But the 120 minutes on this movie I felt could have been spent better at watching a cockfight or something.Jumping quickly to the story, it was very painful to watch the seemingly simple boring story being contorted with a lot of psychobabble bull s**t. Throughout the story, the characters were begging the audience to understand them and relate themselves to but the whole process could have been made a little easier on the viewers mind.Hawke talking about his dead grandma's image, his reaction to the palm reader, his sick desperation at humping her, all was too strenuous to watch. Julie bore this mysterious, soothsayer's demeanor throughout the movie which was constantly annoying and made me hope that the director would end the movie with both of them waking up in their beds back home and realizing it was all a dream, which would have been a far better ending.My single complaint with this movie and the reason for rating it 4 on 10 is the movie's attempt at showing the reality of life, relationships, family and friends which was very vexing on the mind. Any average man between 20 to 40 would have found some part of the movie to be a depiction of his life at some point of time and this is where the movie failed me, it was a trial and error situation and it was quite boring. other technical parameters of movie making don't even feature much and are better left alone.I would recommend a re view of eternal sunshine of the spotless mind which is far more satisfying.peace!
I would like to stress again that the chemistry between Hawke and Delpy was near to nothing. I saw no sparks, no interest, and no bond. It was as if Hawke hated everything that Delpy did (see the poet and the fortuneteller), while Delpy just was looking for an American man to spend the day with. I felt as if she was trying to create that special moment from nothing, as if it was her goal for the entire evening with Hawke. She wanted to have one of those romantic evening for two in Vienna, and I caught from her character that anyone with half-a-brain would do well for the adventure. That person, in this case, happened to be Ethan Hawke. So, they attempt to have these moments, forcibly interrupted by Hawke trying to throw a kiss in there every once in awhile that wasn't scripted (to seem more "real") that only made Delpy seem disgusted. I just felt that when these two did kiss, they didn't really enjoy it as much as they should have. As I think about this point, I can't help but think of a line that Celine uses in this film. She states, "No, then it sounds like a male fantasy. Meet a French girl on the train, have her, and never see her again." What if this was reversed on Celine, perhaps she was trying to find a man on a train, have him, then never sees him again. When I first met these characters, that was my initial thought. I did not see them together for the long haul, but after they talked for an hour and a half, I guess they had to fall in love. This was a totally mismatched pair by director Richard Linklater, and when you only have two main focuses in the film, I would have to say that should be your only job <U+0085> ensuring that you have two people that actually build chemistry on the scene. Hawke and Delpy did not.Speaking of Richard Linklater (director of School of Rock), I do not think that he had a good grasp of this film from the beginning. I think he was attempting to show, without too much of a script, if two people could fall in love after a chance meeting on a train. What would be the "real" reactions, and how would it ultimately end? Sorry to say that Linklater does a poor job with this film, especially the ending where it doesn't even have a successful climax. That's the worst part of the film-it keeps on going and going, but it really overstays its welcome and becomes too repetitive towards the end. That was not helping him at all by having this slow ending.I have heard people quote this film as the "greatest love story" ever. I would have to differ with them because of the characterization and portrayal of our Jesse and Celine. Both were uncomfortable, unstructured, and fractured in their parts and it was obvious through the screen. I have seen better love stories, and better stories will continue to be released!Grade: ** out of *****


                
The bottom line is whether or not the film was entertaining or not. Yes and no. The story depicts two people falling in love for the evening. But did the viewer become attached to their situation by the end? No, at the end of the film, the two forget the idea o never seeing each other again and decide to meet there exactly six months from that date, no matter the circumstances. At times the realness of the characters sort of turns a part of the audience off by giving away too much of the character's personalities. The part of the audience that could identify with particular traits of the characters was pleased, but the other became a bit alienated by doing this. This latter part of the audience, the part that was not so swayed by the character's identities, must have been thankful that the 18 plus hours of the adventure were not actually shot in real-time, or more relationships would have been weakened rather than strengthened due to one of the two leaving the movie theater out of pure boredom. The point is that the story was not maximized to its full potential. The characters were lacking traits that could have made them dynamic. Although Linklater was playing off of the realistic atmosphere he was trying to create, often this does not describe the reason people go to the movies: to fulfill a fantasy; to enter a new, entertaining world for a ninety minute time span. If the viewer is not entranced by the artificial world created within the movie, then viewers will not be inspired. And if there exists no inspiration, then life would get, well, boring.


                
