I think the memory of this is better than the movie itself.I recently saw the sequel. It was one of the most delicate and perfect things I know so far as that shell of romance which is outside of intimacy. That was because <U+0097> I think <U+0097> of the actors and and the lines they contributed. It makes the timing natural. It doesn't take geniuses for this because the two characters are acting and playing natural acting is easier than playing natural life.But a huge part of what made that work was the memory of this. So I went back and watched it. Its nice, I suppose, but far, far worse than "Before Sunset." It seems just like all the other Linklater movies: thin, effete, words with no edge. Corners with no walls.Delpy is radiant, of course, having just been through the school of Kieslowski. I think you'll just have to sit through this, probing it, looking for something that sticks and not finding it. You'll have to do this so that you can remember it sweetly. The memory matters, at least it did for me. I guess I was remembering the movie I wish it were, about the perfection never achieved.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
Before Sunrise is a simple movie with a simple story about a young couple from USA and France who meet and fall in love with each other in Vienna, but just for one night, because the next day they separate and go their own way. I'm not a big fan of romantic movies but I was really satisfied with this movie, it's so simple, realistic, cute and sad at the same time. The chemistry between Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy is really convincing, the dialogs are intelligent and talking mostly about different views about the world, reality and, of course, the mysteries of love. Before Sunrise is one of those movies which will brought together even the viewers who are not big fans of movie romances. The only thing that bothered me was that the kiss between two main characters came too soon and their goodbye at the end of the movie could be much more sad. But overall Before Sunrise is really cute romance for everyone, who believe in the unwritten rules of love.
Romance is basically dead in movies. We get romantic comedies, but those usually involve calling people the wrong name in bed. But epic romances a la Gone with the Wind are basically, um, gone with the wind. That is, before Richard Linklater came along. I'm not calling his Before Sunrise an epic romance by any means, but it's a nice, small romance that actually has believable characters in a believable circumstance. You can't really get that from a recent "romance". What Linklater (and co-writer Kim Krizan) create is an engaging love story that, unfortunately, has never heard of "too much of a good thing".Taking a train through Europe, Jesse (Ethan Hawke) starts talking with Celine (Julie Delpy). He convinces her to get off of the train in Vienna to spend his last European night with him. They wander around the town, talking about life, the universe, and everything, as the clock winds down, because Jesse has to catch a plane.Before Sunset, the sequel to Sunrise, has basically the same format. The conversations in both are very interesting and entertaining, but I'd say that Sunrise's conversations were more varied. Some were more interesting, some were less interesting, and some were mediocre. But it's the conversations that make both Befores such great movies. They let you get inside of the characters, realize what they're thinking and how much like real people they are. And not only is the dialogue entertaining, but it's thought-provoking and all natural. It all seems ad libbed, which it isn't, which finalizes the humanity and the true-to-life qualities of these people.But where the second one succeeded, the first one failed. The second came in at a quick 80 minutes, which was 80 minutes of dialogue shown in real time, creating a very intimate bond between the audience and the characters. In Sunrise, it's not in real time (which is okay, but not up to par with the sequel), which allowed unnecessary establishing shots to be put in. But what was the worst about this movie was its inability to end. Instead of doing something like the short 'n sweet 80 minutes of the second film, after 80 minutes is up, Sunrise isn't over yet! You've had enough of these characters and you want the movie to end (in a good way), but the movie keeps on chugging along. It goes on for 20 more minutes, and it doesn't even have a successful climax. That's the worst part of the film-it keeps on going and going, but it really overstays its welcome and becomes too repetitive towards the end. Obviously, you should see this movie before the sequel, but I think it's safe to say that Sunset is the better movie overall.My rating: 7/10Rated R for language.


                
I've seen parts of this movie over the years and cant believe its age already. Finally sat down and watched it in its entirety and enjoyed it as capturing romance effectively. Julie Delpy who has a more difficult role due to her language background leads the story and the encounter really making the movie. This one of the only romances or dramas that effectively doesn't formula. Instead of there being a quarrel and make-up, the tension is built on the issue of time. In excellent quality blazing it's own path, the movie sticks with a real and believable outcome. Best conversation scene in the movie was the telephone calls and the character's divulging their attractions to one another. Good for a more originality in storyline and the director's choices to not cave to cliché. Recommended.
Let's get serious here. Although this was a cute and entertaining movie it is certainly no all-time classic. Sure the characters are moderately engaging and the story is cute, even the dialogue is tolerable, but this is just another romantic fable with a modern spin - nothing more! 7/10


                
Two young people are travelling in Europe. They happen to meet on a train and decide to get off at Vienna to spend a day together before travelling back to their individual homes. This movie is pretty much that one evening and night they spend together.Sounds like a pretty typical romantic drama or comedy, doesn't it? And yes, to a certain degree I agree. A few things set it apart from the rest, though. First, the age of the two leads. At least in my opinion these movies are usually about teenagers or about people in their thirties or late twenties. But these two are in their early twenties, barely at that. They're adults, but only just about. And that is reflected in their characters very well. I can easily imagine that I was just like this five to seven years ago. Being more comfortable in your skin than you were during your adolescence, but still unsure about the world and your place in it. Starting to get an idea about what you think about the world, what kind of a person you are, but still deep down very undecided about anything.Secondly, I do admire the fact that these two are most interested in the personalities of each other. The film is laden with dialogue for a reason. It's mostly them getting to know one another, talking just about anything. There are certainly romantic scenes, but even they're rather talkative. And these are good talks. Once again, their age is reflected very well in how they talk and what they talk about.Full compliments to Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy as well. They play their characters beautifully. Sure, Hawke's character is a bit cocky for my taste, but he's not a bad kid by any means. Just a bit full of himself. Then again, I do have to admit that I probably was as well at that age.Before Sunrise is a nice breath of fresh air. A romantic drama where the attraction comes from the mind and not just from the fact that they're two ridiculously good-looking people.


                
It really is a nice plot. These types of things are not that uncommon or common in life. I do not know are these romantic things possible in the real life. I guess they are. Or not? It is up for a debate. But after all it is only a film. Vienna is a great set for a beautiful story like this.Acting is excellent, they act so well, it is almost as they are a real couple somewhere in Vienna.I can see that big question here is did they have sex on their first date? Does it really matter? It is not that important, their relationship will become more complicated as the time passes, in the real life these romantic beginnings end up as a disastrous divorces or break ups even before marriage.


                
Well, i rated 7/10 this movie, i can't say it is the best i have ever saw, but it's very interesting and there are many amazing scenes.The story is really good and unusual, which makes me write this review. The places are amazing and the small details in the movie, really created a very romantic story.The fact is that this one is the first movie i saw with her, and that can only make me love this movie. I will never forget then.I strongly recommend everyone to watch this movie with his / her lover.This is only the first movie of a trilogy which i will watch in the upcoming Fridays.Cheers


                
This is a start of a realistic connecting romance movie from a trilogy. Now I saw "Before Sunset" before seeing this one. But wished I have saw this first, since it's the first movie in this "Before" trilogy. The story is about two people meeting and as they converse, they start to build a bond with each other. While also sightseeing and experience their time in Vienna for a evening. Again the conversations hit the mark, although this time it goes in a basic root direction. It's still interesting and intriguing, even if your one of those audiences that actually thought about some of the topics in the conversation. I am not quite sure how much is ad-lib or improvised but the direction is believable and realistic. Maybe it's because both the actor and actress put few of their own real life in put, such as how Ethan Hawke is really born and raised in Texas. The conversations is basically pseudo-intellectual and philosophical view points and questions. The chemistry and connection between the two lead characters is strong. This time Ethan Hawke's character Jesse is the pessimist and slightly not as likable. While the lead actress is a optimist and likable for this first installment. The dialogues or conversations touches upon life, death, religions, relationships, and love. So although it touches on the basics, it's still a immersive film. And I enjoyed it, maybe for it's realism and thought provoking effects. Even if some areas I could agree with while others not so much.7.8/10
POSSIBLE SPOILERS.It does not have the greatest of on-screen chemistries, but the protagonists just manage to be believable.The film itself is not a very good (and definitely not great) romantic encounter - but it is by no means bad or average either. You do believe they are romantically interested in each other, but that is not the main focus.It is a look at the various aspects of romance and relevant relationships, as the would-be lovers discuss away whilst walking through the city - which means, a LOT of talking. Look elsewhere for romantic saccharine.And in some ways, it is also an attractive postcard from Vienna.
This is a slow moving story. No action. No crazy suspense. No abrupt surprises. If you cannot stand to see a movie about two people just talking and walking, about a story that develops slowly till the very end and about lovey-dovey romance, don't waste your time and money. On the other hand, if you're into dialog, masterful story telling, thought provoking ideas and finding true love in the fabric of life then this is your movie. I recommend you watch this movie when you are most alert, though, because the pace, the music and the overall tone of the movie can put you in a woolgathering mood. It's truly fantastic. I really mean that.Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy are annoying with their mannerisms at times but, thankfully, the chemistry between the two makes the acting very natural, warm and tender. They act and feel each other out from the very beginning, making you feel as an intruder.In their conversations there are excellent commentaries on many subjects that will provoke thought and conversation between you and your partner. I thought it was too deep and too diverse for such young characters but I may be underestimating their intelligence. Still it did not ruin the movie.The overall story is very simple which I think gives the movie it's charm and ultimately it's power.BOTTOM LINE: The movie's flow is slow. The dialog is fascinating. The story builds gently, systematically and substantive. The build up to the finale is satisfying and in the end rewarding.
My watch came a little too late but am glad i watched both this and the sequel together...which makes me compliment the makers of this flick for giving such a pure and basic treatment to the idea of romanticism... and very marginally separating it from the idea of relationships! As a lot has been written about the movie already, it would just be appropriate to highlight few portions of the movie which i personally loved.I think the point where Jesse and Celine make phony phone calls to their respective friends was a very shrewd way of telling each other what they had meant to each other through a journey not even extending 24 hrs... the curiosity of two people who both think the other has made an infallible impact on the other has been very smartly dealt with...On the plot front , making a romantic story work on pure conversation is not an easy job to accomplish..I believe in romantic flicks of such flavor , the characters are not clearly designed even in the writer's and director's mind. What the actors bring out is what becomes of them .. right or wrong even the idea bearers would find it difficult to justify... to become the character, the life the actor gives has to go beyond instructions and the story...here both the actors do just the RIGHT job! Kudos..!!!and Before sunset is another feather which makes this one even more beautiful!


                
Before Sunrise, while the story is really meant to be taken at face value, in combination with obvious film techniques such as shot composition, lighting, and the changes from "real-time," to "created-time," certainly creates this wandering aspect, representative of the "Slacker genre," of film relating to Generation X.The story being a simple, open-ended love story is an effective means of breaking the conventional strategies of story-telling (Protagonist vs Antagonist, conflict, epiphany and a decisive conclusion). The film gives the viewer a sense of the wandering, loose, flimsy, and sometimes clumsy reality of a date (even though this would be an exceptional date between two people) between two people who share a sense of being overwhelmed by their post-modern condition, where they struggle to think of or do anything original or particularly substantial. through the film having very little conventionally shot scenes, and very normal dialogue (which is unconventional in Hollywood films), helps with that sense of realism.In any case, I was pleasantly surprised by this film, not thinking it will be all that interesting, but if you are a film-buff, it is not your run-of-the-mill Hollywood romance movie. It achieves a sense of realism with this ideal date scenario far more successfully than anything I've seen in the past 5 or so years, as trends are currently to create a fantasy that viewers can relate to, rather than realistic scenarios in any genre really (even the news is susceptible, nowadays).I would give this movie an 8, however I think of it as an, "acquired taste," so I gave it a 7/10.


                
I would never ever normally watch a movie like this but it was a boring Saturday night and nothing that was really on the TV appealed to me much so I decided to do some channel hopping , so between this movie and another I cant get the name now I was flipping between but I kept coming back to this one , I did know that it was a different type of movie making were it comprised mainly of dialogue between people and not much else , I found the chemistry between the leads very good , I think that is what made the movie enjoyable , the dialogue is very real and acted very well , Julie Delpy is gorgoues ,I cant wait to see her in The Countess , Ethan Hawke and her compliment each other very well , just the ending was a bit sad but I guess we all knew that was inevitable , I wish I could meet someone in this way and fall in love especially if they look like Ms Delpy !! And I would never ever leave someone like her at the end !! ;-)
i have been fooling around alone these days due to a week of national holidays, in which i was supposed to do some studies instead of taking a break, for i have to do some preparatory work for my vague future. this kind of life sucks. so i turn to movies, especially somethings about love, romance and the alike. my roommate recommends me to have a look at "before sunrise" which iss in his opinion so warm and worth seeing. i did give it a shot, and get unexpected feelings. seeing the familiar settings in Vienna(i have been to a country near to it and the city appearance there is so much similar to it),i get rekindled and recall those past days i spent abroad. it sorrowfully reminds me of being set up. i do not mean to pursue romantic relations,for which i do not think i am already well prepared. but whenever i got exposed to these sort of movies, they inevitably within me promote the same feeling that ask me to go in for love.


                
Unless you're actually doing something such as watching a film or reading a book, train journeys can seem rather dull. This simple yet now effective fact is used to kick start one of the most underrated, unknown yet oddly attractive films of the 1990's and possibly of all time.The train has been used as a setting in film for decades and romance is never too far away when it is the setting; whether it features in 'Some Like it Hot' (1959) and Jack Lemmon's undeniable attraction to Sugar Kane or in this film: Before Sunrise; a simple yet effective romantic drama (not a comedy) revolving solely around a mere two people and their seemingly random conversations.A film like this one does not have to be glamorous. It does not need to draw the audience in with spectacular visuals or dramatic opening sequences nor does it need to introduce a number of different characters through dialogue or otherwise to prove its point. Instead it takes a 'fly on the wall' approach. Wherever our hero's go; we go. Whatever our hero's hear; we hear. Whatever our hero's talk about; we listen and this carries on throughout. The early portion of this film is fairly light-hearted, even fun. The two people obviously have never spoken to one another in their lives and the seemingly nervous banter early on is real ice-breaker stuff which reeks of originality. The dialogue is original and uses a technique only really exploited with any real mainstream purpose by Tarantino whom, himself, was still basking in the glory of 'Pulp Fiction' (1994) which had only been around for a solitary year when this was made and released. In fact, Ethan Hawke's character's acting and much of his dialogue will remind you of Tarantino himself in the way in which he delivers his lines early on! The nervousness which Celine (Delpy) gives off is counter acted with the rather disturbing confidence that Jesse (Hawke) has throughout the opening half an hour of this film and it creates a rather fascinating juxtaposition as the two counteract each other. Here we have two seemingly complete strangers sharing pretty personal information, pretty early on in the 'relationship' and you really have to watch as to what might happen next. Will Celine accept what this rough, tough looking American has to say? Or will the character slap him and get off at the next tram stop? Interesting stuff as any thing can happen given the fact everything is happening in real time and in a very simple/real environment <U+0096> no strings attached. This creates a good atmosphere and is complimented by the long takes which stretch out our interest.Once off the train (or any other transport) the normal, familiar settings of a town/cityscape has never worked so well when in conjunction with a story as pleasant or as natural as this. The city; albeit with all its culture, beauty and so fourth - never seems too glamorous nor does it act as an arrogant, over the top setting for a story so subtle as this one yet at the same, it's more than just 'effective'.Given the simplicity of the film, there are flaws. One thing that really bothered me and seemed a little too convenient was that of the bilingual tramp/artist whom they both met during the evening. That seemed a little too forced and a little too coincidental for me, even though the whole premise is, in fact, coincidence as that's how they meet in the first place. Another thing is the certain arrogance the camera takes on. The long takes seem to drag on a little during the film, especially when we are not given any interesting background to catch a breather from. This includes the pinball machine scene in the club and should be compared to the tram scene from earlier on in the film. During these bad examples, the actors seem a little less bothered and the dialogue starts to grate a little which is not a pleasant experience. At least in 'Pulp Fiction', the characters are almost always moving on to the next setting, there's always a bit of colour or background activity and there's no annoying pinball machine noises to distract you! Overall, if you like to travel a lot or if you've visited mainland Europe before or maybe even gone through something like this yourself, you'll like this film. Don't expect anything fantastic, just a decent, well made romance which uses its settings and situation to good effect AND that leaves a fair bit of ambiguity in the air afterwards.


                
The perfect love story: two strangers, an American guy and a french girl, they both meet in a train and they decide to spend together one single night in Vienna (after that they'll have to split up forever). Walking around that monumental city, chats about anything, poetry, wine, sex under the light of the stars. Kind of a mix between "Brief Encounter" and Rohmer's "Tales of the four seasons". It is a simple movie, with such an existentialist touch, which leans on the naturalness of Delpi and Hawke, and the chemistry between them. "Before sunrise" is a good example of how to make a romantic movie without being sickly sweet.*My rate: 7/10


                
A brilliantly observed story about a 20-somthing American man who meets a French girl on a train traveling through Europe.Hawke and Delpy are fantastic as the young couple, Jesse and Celine who meet, who hit it off immediately and fall in love - for one night only. They know that they only have the few hours together before sunrise, before they have to go back to their normal lives, Jesse in America and Celine back in France.A real gem of a film, totally unique - the whole film is basically a 2 character show, and you are right there beside them both as they discuss their hopes, dreams, ambitions, fears and their lives in general. Recommended viewing.


                
Having seen this film a few times, I read other comments and was wondering what it was I missed. I like independent movies, romantic independent movies especially but this film left me apathetic. Some parts of it were terrific. The scene where they make imaginary phone-calls to their friends to talk about each other was wonderful. But if they fell so hard for each other then why didn't they feel the need to call or write? Because that would require too much effort? The ending causes this movie to fall short. The 'lets leave everything to chance' routine has been used so much in recent years its become groan inducing. Jesse says that people in a committed relationship become bored with each other once they've learned everything there is to know. That didn't sound real to me. It sounded like an excuse.


                
"Before Sunrise" tells of a couple who meet on a train and spend a day/night together in Vienna. This contempo romantic light-drama is all Delpy and Hawke engaged in conversation as they exchange perceptions, experiences, philosophies, etc., eventually fall in love (if that's possible), and then deal with the matter of having to part. A fresh, non-formula flick which is more obvious than predictable, "BS" is Hollywoodish romance set abroad with good performances by the principals and little to fault. Enjoyable stuff.


                
Right before Jesse (Ethan Hawke) said it, I thought to myself, the sidewalk philosopher has the same poem ready for every couple who comes along and simply sticks in the word of choice to make him seem brilliant. Darn if that's not what happened! You know if I were back in my Twenties and I saw this picture I'd probably think it was wonderful. What young couple doesn't go through some of the same conflicting emotions upon a first meeting and stammer through a host of responses? Fast forward a few decades and the whole exercise seems pretty manufactured and pretentious.The thing that really threw me was when Celine (Julie Delpy) admitted to Jesse that she obsessed over her stupid, ugly, bad-in-bed, and alcoholic first boyfriend after HE dumped her. Not much there to recommend her as a good judge of character. And I wasn't counting, but I think it's safe to say she used the 'F' word more times than Jesse did. But heck, he got the ball rolling with his very first question about sexual feelings. But that was then and this is now; today Jesse would have opened himself up for sexual abuse charges if Celine ever had a change of heart.Look, I hate to rain on anybody's parade, but this picture just about gagged me. I'm all for romance but this one didn't do it for me. Which is to say, it's a pretty safe bet I won't be running out to catch the sequel.
