When I saw this movie in the theater when it came out in 1995 via a free advanced screening, I was totally enchanted and would have gladly paid to see it. I was sorry when I talked to many people afterwards who had also seen it and who were totally disappointed with it and how it ended. I, on the other hand, felt completely the opposite. I was totally satisfied with the outcome and everything else. People I talked to said there was too much talking! Plus they were unhappy because they felt that the ending left you wondering about the fate of the two characters. I found these observations to be absurd and to also be painful evidence of how the majority of the American movie-going public seems to have a tendency to want easy-to-follow stories in films with not too much complex and intelligent dialogue lest they get confused. They also like to be spoon-fed tidy endings--happy OR sad. This disgusts me. Nobody wants to be challenged anymore??? And as for the ending (and I don't want to be a spoiler), I am totally content because I know in my heart  that these two characters WILL see each other again. It's all about your own personal faith in romance and destiny. It's a very personal film that doesn't speak to all people. But it certainly spoke to me. Give it a chance! Be patient with it! Richard Linklater has crafted a very lovely film with a beautiful story set against the beautiful background of the city of Vienna. Watching it makes you feel as if you yourself are strolling through the city streets along with the characters. As if you yourself were tripping through Europe on a Eurail pass. It's very intimate. Plus, Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy do an exquisite job of bringing the complex script to life. They must have improvised during some parts and it works well. They have a great chemistry in their roles. Their awkwardness as strangers getting to know each other in the beginning is very believable and you can truly feel the romance and bonding develop between them as the movie progresses. I get the feeling that this was a very personal work for Mr. Linklater and I deeply respect him for getting this film made. It definitely touched me and I hope it touches others just as much. Bravo for romance!!!
Why do we need twist and tales and stuff in romantic movies to keep it going when it can be kept simple & meaningful! Before Sunrise is such a masterpiece, very simple yet so sophisticated and one of the best romantic movies ever made - romcoms, scifiroms, noirroms and all those movies with romance as a subplot are categorized as pure romantic genre nowadays.What would you do with your girlfriend if you are given a day off! what would you talk about, where would you go to spend time! yea, its difficult, the world is no small compound to take her for a walk or tell her about stuff you want to, in a day. Well, the movie is all about two strangers finding something between them so soulful that they can spend only a day before they have to part ways.The movie voww, it is all like magic, the conversation, the walk and the night spent and the final departure which was so painful. Am not that fond of Ethan Hawke, but then its magic that works out when hes there with Julie Delpy. The final scene leaves a lump in your throat, so poignant when those places they visited are shown vacant in the end. The background score would only thicken your sore throat.A soulful Drama with nothing but pure romance, indeed one of the the best romantic movies ever made.


                
Here is cinema in its most simplified and most raw form. Before Sunrise is what you get when you strip away all of the flash, all the flare, and all the cluttering visual elements of a story and instead simply turn on the camera and allow two actors to be together and tell a story completely driven by poignant dialogue. Before Sunrise stars Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy as Jesse and Celine, respectively. Jesse, an American traveling Europe for his own vague reasons, meets Celine, a French girl, on a train on the way to Vienna. The two immediately strike up conversation and wind up taking a spontaneous trip through Vienna together, where they slowly fall in love, despite their inevitable split the next day when they both must return to their respective home countries. It's a beautifully told tale of blossoming love, while tragedy looms in the background.Richard Linklater loves telling stories in unconventionally unique ways, and Before Sunrise is one of his earliest and most successful attempts at unique storytelling. Of course, the film's uniqueness stems from its simplicity. I feel like if you go into this movie expecting any more than talking you are doomed to hate it. But, if you go into it expecting rich dialogue and textured characters contemplating life, love, and the universe, you are bound to really enjoy this film.There really isn't a whole lot to say about this lovely little film, because all of its charm and beauty stems from its simplicity. There is so little to this movie, and yet so much to enjoy as you fall in love with these characters, subsequently just falling in love with the whole idea of love, because Hawke and Delpy make it look like such a naturally magnificent thing. You have here a film that essentially goes nowhere (it all does take place in one city in one night), yet takes you on such a journey into the psyche and the dynamics of these two fascinating characters who, along the way, meet a whole cast of other interesting and eccentric individuals who move the story along.If anything is wrong with this movie it's that you can see the slight inexperience in Linklater's writing, something he has obviously overcome because he has made a slew of other fantastic films since making what is only his third feature film. The script, albeit very well written, does walk the line between superficial and profound at times. And yet the conceited ideals our protagonists exude coincide with the youthful ignorance this film beautifully portrays in its characters.This film captures the spirit of its characters, and draws you into accepting all of the decisions which, in retrospect, might have been foolish. A girl getting off a train with a stranger she just met to visit a town she's never been to seems like a bad idea if you ask me, but Before Sunrise convinces us so genuinely that love is real and will conquer all.


                
The story rolls out the big coincidence thing at the very beginning to develop into something cute. The togetherness depicted in the movie is maybe representative of the kind that many people crave. The kind that is less or even free of having to bind together into a commitment. I like the thing about this movie that the very attraction of the romance depicted in this movie is the conversations, of how thoughtful they are. They don't have to be all in agreement all the time, but they can be resolved in recognition of the different perspectives if thinking. I like how Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy acted out here. They seem to connect nicely. Their performance can depict the needed amount of connection considering the sheer coincidence and serendipity involved in the togetherness.


                
Jesse and Ceiline are brought together on a train when an old married couple have a very public fight in that way that only old married couples can manage. Two things become clear very quickly to the young couple - they have chemistry, and the time they can spend together is extremely limited. They set about making the most of mystical. magical, slightly unreal experience. They meander through Vienna, occasionally encountering some minor colourful characters, who despite being finely drawn, are always just a sideshow to the intense, fragile, painfully exposed musings of the young couple.Hawke and Delpy do a superb job of making an implausible situation seem all too natural and engrossing. Their dialogue could all too easily be self-absorbed and twee (My Blueberry Nights?), but here it is apt and at times incisive. "I fee like I am taking notes, waiting for my real life to begin," says Jese. Much of the success of the film is down to how the observations of the two characters resonate so closely with our own existential concerns.I made the mistake of watching Before Sunset before watching this. I wish I had encountered them chronologically. Both films are recommended, but only for those who like a slower pace, wry observation, and sheer, unadulterated romance.


                
Nothing happens in "Before Sunrise." Two strangers, an American and a French woman, meet on a train and spend an evening together in Vienna -- end of story. Few combinations of script, director and talent could pull this off as a good movie, but Richard Linklater and stars Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy find a way. Filmmaking has never been this simplistic or difficult. You couldn't devise a film with a more generic premise, which is to say that you couldn't make it any harder on yourself as a filmmaker to make something from seemingly nothing. The characters have to not just be likable, but lovable, the romance has to suck us in and the dialogue has to shoulder the entire workload. Yet that's exactly what "Before Sunrise" does. The ceiling for the film is pretty low, but it presses right up against it.Maybe the best part about the characters of Jesse and Celine is that they're pretty normal- looking. They're both attractive, but subtly so, which is where Linklater's film and typical Hollywood fare differ. There's a layer of implicit sincerity there that we don't get from most love stories where beautiful people do things we could only fantasize about it on our best days. Jesse and Celine's connection is built on a natural chemistry and everything might conveniently "work," but it feels real and natural.Hawke and Delpy sell us hard on being normal people. The discussions they're provided in Linklater and Kim Krizan's script helps this along nicely, but the moments they share, whether nervous and tentative, tender or humorous are felt on all levels. What's written is never good enough in a romance, but how the actors convince us of the truth to their words with body language and communicating a multitude of signals both to each other and to the camera. Their romance feels like the romance we not only want to have, but unlike Hollywood, we also feel like we can attain. That's what sets "Sunrise" apart.Hard to imagine how this film came from the same mind as the man behind "Slackers" and "Dazed and Confused." All good films, but the focus on two characters here makes the difference. The real strength of the script here lies in the creation of complex character backstory without the use of expository writing or flashbacks. By the end of the film, you know exactly the kind of people the two of them are, even though you've only seen it through their interactions with each other. "Before Sunrise" should definitely be considered the benchmark for romance films. Literally no events occur in this film yet it stays interesting through lively and sincere conversation from two actors that have a knack for realism. Hundreds of films have and will be done better in the romance genre, but the structural bones of "Before Sunrise" are the most immaculate around. Even if a film doesn't put you on edge or do something special, you have to be able to recognize great intangibles and there's no arguing with those of "Sunrise."~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com


                
I must first admit that one star is for the pleasant surprise this delight of a film produced after viewing it a month after surviving director Linklater's awful Waking Life, which was nail bitingly close to being the worst film I have ever witnessed. That said you must be warned, Before Sunrise is what I label a 'hit or miss' movie (no, not in the rhyming slang sense, tsk), in that the impact of the film will depend largely on the viewer, you will either love it or hate it. Also in the film not a lot happens, there is no real drama, conflict or action just 2 people who meet share a day together in Vienna and fall in love. It is a 'talky' film, it almost all dialogue, the dialogue will not always be easy to digest for everyone, I found the film to drag at points, but there are at least some things in here that I think everyone can relate to. What makes the film a success (to some, not all) is the way that this relationship unfolds, with sublime realism and tenderness. A very simple film on the surface it has intricacies that are open for the viewer to interpret in relation to their own lives and feelings.This story put me instantly in mind of Lost in Translation, except for the age gap, the other difference is we have no prior knowledge of the main characters when they meet. We have two young folk travelling home through Europe by train, Jesse, a typically sceptical American guy who has just split with his long distance girlfriend who he left behind in Madrid to go on a whirlwind tour of Europe and Celine, a young idealistic French student, a quiet daydreamer. After sitting opposite each other they get talking, initially about how relationships ware thin with time, which relates to the central theme of the film, and after some nervous stutters a chemistry begins to grow between them. This is pretty much how the film develops, the pair share each others views on the world around them, the after life and the little idiosyncrasies in American and European cultures as the train hurtles on. Not everyone will be able to cope with such a duologue based story, I took time adjusting but unlike Waking Life I managed to do so because the words were delivered by characters as conversation, not monologue by random folk, and it had a context which made the experience easier to relate to. Some of the discussions connected with me, others made me recoil. Some of the philosophising and conversation was elegant in a manner, such as the talk of visions of the dead other times it was grating like Jesse's awful TV idea, made me cringe. This is only to be expected when you are watching 2 characters talk for extended periods about a wide range of issues. Sure these are conversations you would rather engage in than watch but it is the context that really matters, this does not really take hold until later in the film. The characters were not the sort of people I would spend time with personally, they were sorta whiny youths who seem slightly rebellious and perhaps overly sure of the validity of their own views, however although I did not really relate to them (usually not a good thing) I began to enjoy the situation. This is the sort of situation you always hope will occur, you start a conversation with stranger and you get to know each other and find you have an instant connection. Watching these two connect just by talking, the most simple thing, was strangely captivating. I think because it is so believable a situation because the 2 actors who just play it like normal everyday folk having a chat, it made it easy to relate to.On the spur of the moment Jesse, who has to get off the train in Vienna, asks Celine to spend the day with him instead of continuing her journey. She accepts and off they go to talk some more against the backdrop of one of the world's most beautiful cities (after Edinburgh of course), the shots of Vienna really show it off accurately in all it's wonderfully intricate grandeur contrasting with that almost desolate, sleepy continental atmosphere. You start to see slight signs of conflict between the pair's views on life, Jesse dismisses the palm reader who pesters them and has a generally sceptical view on life while Celine (being European) has a very open mind about such things. These subtle differences seem to draw them closer together rather than push them apart, they gradually and visibly become more and more comfortable and relaxed with each other.The film does drag at times, especially in the section where they first get off the train, and it took it's time to work it's magic on me. As their evening wore on though I did finally begin to get absorbed, as I knew the two would soon have to part. That is the beauty of the film, in the fact that for the couple's time is very limited however this means that their relationship will not have the chance to be stretched and eroded by time. Time won't allow for them to grow tired of each others company as it is time itself that will simply dissipate, not their connection. They are able to let go before that bond grows old and fizzles out. That is what makes the film a success, you feel you have had an insight into something most people can only dream of occurring, yet one that is entirely possible if we have the will and desire to act on our instincts. As I said not a film for everyone but one that contains a rare hidden beauty for those that can connect and persevere with it.


                
I finally got to see "Before Sunrise" on TV as I never succeeded in finding it at a video store. I was really intrigued as many friends, particularly female, described it as an outstanding work of art. Maybe I wasn't in the right mood or my expectations were too high but I didn't experience the movie as really exceptional. It's approach is the typical French style of never-ending philosophical comments on life in general but stripped of profound thinking and based on the concept of "badinage" which basically boils down to "just talking". Charming indeed but not unfamiliar to Europeans who at times have been saturated with "talk movies" (e.g. Bertrand Tavernier's "Un dimanche à la campagne", Eric Rohmer's "Ma nuit chez Maud" etc.) It is often interesting indeed to hear how people reflect on the meaning of life and how they, in their quest for honesty, are often obliged to contradict their own relative insights as the game offers no certitudes: it was Nietzsche who stated that facts do not exist (this is certainly true for human interaction), only interpretations."Before Sunrise", however, although a very sweet movie does not dig very deep and the conversations therefore have that artificial flavor which is characteristic of so many French productions. Great acting, some memorable scenes and to me a very "nice" movie which I constantly watched with a feeling of "I have have seen and heard all this .. many times before" I am convinced however that the movie will undoubtedly appeal to most people who are still in their twenties or thirties.
**Minor Spoilers Ahead!!** I am a guy who generally shuns romantic movies, but I had always been intrigued by the simple premise of "Before Sunrise", a 1995 film about a man and a woman who fall in love literally overnight. I never got around to seeing it until recently, when I had to watch it before seeing this year's sequel, "Before Sunset" (not to be confused with the Pierce Brosnan/Salma Hayek pic "After the Sunset")."Before Sunrise" stars Ethan Hawke as Jesse, a twenty-something American wandering through Europe by train, and Julie Delpy as Celine, a twenty-something French woman returning to Paris from a relative's funeral. They meet by chance on a train and eventually decide to while the night away in Vienna together, before Jesse's flight departs in the morning. The couple wanders around the city, getting to know each other and themselves better as they go. If that sounds simple, it is. The only other characters are those whom Jesse and Celine happen to encounter along the way.With such a basic storyline, the film relies entirely on the work of Hawke and Delpy. Fortunately the two conjure up an open honesty rarely seen on screen. They never seem to be acting, and their interactions are consistently fresh, as though they had been through separate rehearsals before showing up to work together. Their dialogue is casual without being overly so, but is still cautious enough to be appropriate for the given stage of the relationship.Beyond the words, the gestures complement the relationship superbly as well. The way their eyes avoid each other at first. The multiple times Jesse reaches out to almost touch Celine before thinking the better of it. How Celine coyly seems to enjoy being the object of his affection, then later saying exactly that, how she likes his eyes on her. These physical actions reinforce the verbal communication and elevate the picture to the next level of excellence.In my mind, "Before Sunrise" portrays how falling love should be, except over a much longer period of time. There is a semi-awkward feeling-out stage, followed by sheer pleasure in the other's company, followed by the requisite bumps in the road, leading to an ultimately satisfying relationship. In less than two hours, "Before Sunrise" presents as realistic a portrayal of love and interpersonal relations as I can recall, a sort of ultra-compact "When Harry Met Sally..." filled with honest and open dialogue that is wonderfully free of melodrama. That absence will vex some, particularly those accustomed to the over-the-top romance of most American movies, but those with patience will experience a well-told story about human interaction.The film is not perfect, as certain third act decisions will send the approval of some through the roof, disappoint a few (me), and cause yet others to be wildly indifferent. This all depends on the personality of the viewer, as the final scenes will cause you to genuinely ponder what you want the characters to do, and what you would do under similar circumstances. Despite my selective antipathy, that's a sign of a good and effective film, one that causes people to take sides as they determine what should, would, and could occur."Before Sunrise" is a predecessor to recent critics' darlings like "Lost in Translation" and "Garden State", a film that uses self-exploratory conversation to advance the basic story. If you liked either of those films, you should appreciate this one, and if you liked this one, check out the sequel, which is now on DVD.Bottom Line: Eight of ten, which considering the subject matter, is high praise indeed.
'Before Sunrise' is not a film to be scrutinised, nor studied. The absolute beauty of it lies in its perfection as a simple love story - of two lives suddenly thrown together in the midst of reality, and the ensuing night of simple love that follows. Every individual at some time in life dreams of the connection that is portrayed in this film between Jesse and Celine, and few ever find it. 'Before Sunrise' simply and elegantly demonstrates how the most fundamental passions of human emotion can envelope two complete strangers. The beauty of this film is that the story is the most important element. The ending is both provocative and emotional - scenes of the night previously seen in darkness are now portrayed in lonely daylight as the sun rises and the story closes on these two characters.I saw this film by accident one night late on television. I have never forgotten it. So well is it made that the audience never question if this could ever really happen in life, reality being so absolutely characterised in it.'Before Sunrise' is simply the story of two strangers bound in Vienna's lonely night splendour - one night of love in all its glory, one superb piece of film making.


                
The story could not be more simplistic. An American Male meets a French Female on a train and asks her to spend the evening with him in Vienna. What is not simplistic is the wonderful characters, and exceptional dialogue in Linklater's film. It is obvious that Jesse (Hawke) and Celine (Delpy) have a connection after their first conversation. As their day progresses their connection to each other deepens as does our connection with them. Before Sunrise is so special because we are not manipulated into connecting with them through tragedy, or violence, or sex. We connect with them as we do with people in everyday life, through the life experiences they share with us little by little as our relationship grows. This is true intimacy and is beautifully achieved here. The intimate, personal moments that Jesse and Celine share throughout the film are sprinkled amidst a plethora of other conversations during their night together. They discuss everything from palm reading to dancing, the conversation is never boring and never unnecessary. They don't agree on everything and through that disagreement we we are invited further into their personalities as their connection grows. Jesse and Celine do interact with other characters in the course of the film. Linklater perfectly blends these interactions as well. The supporting characters add to the film without over powering the main characters. These characters are also just odd enough to further strengthen Jesse and Celine's connection as kindred spirits, without ever becoming caricatures. Before Sunrise is a beautiful film. It made me want to rush off to Europe and spend aimless evenings wandering around foreign cities looking for romance. I suppose I will have to settle for revisiting this film and these characters in the future
American tourist Jesse (Ethan Hawke) meets French student Celine (Julie Delpy) on the train. He talks her into getting off and walk around in Vienna. They walk the night away.I really love this movie when it first came out. There was no hint of the following sequels. It's just a great charming first date movie. The leads have great chemistry. They are both charming and lovely. This is a lot of first-date talk. It doesn't get tie down by artificial plot elements. There is nothing to drive the plot. There is no Holy Grail. There is no quest. There is no destination. There are just two people talking and trying to connect. It stops and starts. They meet two oddly funny Germans who invite them to their play. In a more conventional movie, they would actually go to this play. They forget to go and that's kind of the point. Their journey meanders without much direction. There are also great scenes of long continuous takes. Director Linklater just let the actors go on forever on the streetcar. The whole movie feels refreshing.


                
Well....what do I say. I watched this movie with a friend recently and it was amazing.Yes,it may seem odd that I am writing a review for this movie now (in 2008). I was too young in 1995 to make any sense out of it.The chemistry between Celine(Julie Delpy) and Jesse(Ethan Hawke) is just so good.The movie is all about two total strangers meeting each other and falling in love with each other in like 14 hours.The amazing part of the movie is how sweetly the romance between them develops.Its just so pure,uncomplicated and natural. They talk about such mundane things which suddenly seems to make sense.I think everyone goes through the cycle of emotions just like Celine and Jesse.Well, for anyone about to fall in love or anyone who has fallen in love or anyone just looking to rekindle the romance in their life , this is just the movie you may want to watch with your loved one on a rainy,cozy Sunday afternoon.


                
I hadn't heard of "Before Sunrise", until the sequel "Before Sunset" was released. Because there was quite some hype around the sequel and the first one was broad-casted a few days later, I gave it a try. At first I wasn't too convinced about this movie's quality, but I kept watching it anyway and gradually I started to like it more and more. I guess this is the kind of movie that you have to see a couple of times before you can like it at its fullest."Before Sunrise" tells the story of a French graduate student named Celine (Julie Delpy) who meets a young American named Jesse (Ethan Hawke) on the Budapest-Vienna train. She is returning to Paris and he's making a trip through Europe. But instead of continuing their trip on their own, they decide to get of the train in Vienna, where they will spend the entire day and night together. During their stay of 14 hours, they get to know the city and each other, but when the night ends and another day begins, they have to say goodbye to each other, not knowing if they will ever meet again...This isn't yet another romantic movie based on the all too known concept of boy meets girl, boy and girl have a fight, boy and girl realize they love each other too much and live happily ever after. I guess you could call this a romantic movie for the thinking man and woman. This isn't just a corny flick, but a very intelligent and beautiful movie that will offer you the chance to really get to know its characters in a profound way.Overall this is a romantic movie with a well written story, interesting characters and of course a beautiful city as a setting. What more could you possibly expect? Not much, and that's why I give this movie at least a 7.5/10.


                
There was a fellow whose home videos invariably annoyed me.  One day I realized why; each time a conversation began -- something beyond "Hi, mom!" and waving -- the tape would cut and the next scene would begin.One begins to wonder -- does this person even LIKE people?  Apparently the stuff of real life seems too dull for some, and they need Entertainment; the amperage on that entertainment has to keep going up and up, also, because we develop immunity toward all of our fixes.  Thus, we wind up with ARMAGEDDON, GODZILLA, et al, or soap opera hysterics; everything pushing the envelope just so we can feel a little (and recognize a movie's cues to us).I thought BEFORE SUNRISE was great not as a reaction against that, but because it's so obvious Linklater and his actors give a hoot about human beings.  Yes, some of the dialogue -- which is very, very sharply observed -- is silly and pretentious; these are kids who want to impress each other, like each other, and enjoy "deep thoughts."  It reminded me so much of college: that thrill of ideas, possibilities, yearnings.
The movie looks beautiful and is terribly romantic.  Thank God Linklater is savvy enough to play out some conversations in long takes; a cumulative effect and rapport is built between Delpy and Hawke, their pinball game, and us.  They're both movie-star beautiful, but for a while, they're just regular folk.Kubrick and Hitchcock may be better directors than say, Linklater or Levinson, but their cold formalism does make one wonder what grudge they hold against people.  The Coens seem to be warming as well -- FARGO and THE BIG LEBOWSKI bespeak a new affection in their clever hearts.  But, for my money, give me a director who loves people -- a Sturges, a Lubitsch, and, yes, Linklater -- and their works will shine in a way that some geniuses' never do.


                
The reality is I didn't meet anyone when I travel by myself.But I still expect one like this.


                
Before Sunrise takes place in real time as we meet jessie and Celine played by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy respectively. This is one of the most amazing chemistry in a major motion picture and kudos must go to the actors as much as the director. We follow these two all across Vienna and by the end of the film we totally relate to many things. Before Sunrise led to two great sequels which take place in real time and were shot in real time also(as in all the three films were filmed in a span of 18 years). This is art right here.


                
Richard Linklater is a talented filmmaker and Before Sunrise is his ode to romance using themes and techniques he would go on to use often in his films. It takes place in real time as we meet jessie and Celine played by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy respectively. This is one of the most amazing chemistry in a major motion picture and kudos must go to the actors as much as the director. We follow these two all across Vienna and by the end of the film we totally relate to many things. Before Sunrise led to two great sequels which take place in real time and were shot in real time also(as in all the three films were filmed in a span of 18 years). This is art right here.


                
It is great and nice movie.have so many of feelings .the movie proves that you don't need to be in a relationship to enjoy with someone who can make your day and nights as a great memory.movie tells that it is not a necessary to be in a relationship to enjoy your best part of your life.over all good movie.but one thing wondered me and left me speechless about the poem writer guy.....he wrote such an incredible poem for them....movie has so many feelings.specially the end was so beautiful.they vowed they will be back after 6 months.can't wait to see "before sunset".


                
Amazing speechs , long and smart dialogs and pure love


                
'Before Sunrise' will actually make u fall in love with the two leads.....n d part of d day which we call as nights. The film starts with two strangers on their respective journeys on the same train. They happen to meet.....n conversations start flowing leading to a formation of deep emotional connect between two. The chemistry n equation is hard to miss.One of them cancels d trip to spend more time with the other....n den there is no stopping to their feelings. The good thing about the movie is that the love ......shines out in a very real n genuine manner forcing u to long for such kind of relationships. Though the movie ends on a very emotional note....but still its very practical n captivating.


                
When we think of 'epic' trilogies what comes to mind? We think of fantasy; action epics like The Lord of the Rings or Sci-Fi classics like the original Star Wars films (we do not speak of the other three films shh!) and gangster mafia films like The Godfather. All of those seem to be action films however, ones that have been financially successful and well known. In my opinion however, one of the best trilogy of films of all time, are the Before movies. You all might be thinking what kind of movies these films are. The three films are Before Sunrise, Before Sunset, and Before Midnight. These films are some of the most romantic movies ever made with quite possibly two of the most interesting lead couple. Actually you know what? How about I talk in depth of all three of these movies. Sounds nerdy as hell, but its about time someone talked about these masterpieces. 
 
The first film in this trilogy is Before Sunrise. Here in this story we have two seemingly ordinary people, Jesse and Celine, as they meet in train going to Vienna. Their very first conversation starts when a German couple are arguing in the train. Little did they know that the moment they spoke they'd be in for some of the most in depth discussions. Hands down the best aspects of this movie is the characters and the dialogue. The conversations that Jesse and Celine (the main characters) are probably the most complex and interesting pieces of dialogue that I have heard in a romance film. They don't just talk about how much they love each other or anything pointless, every conversation is a reflection of who they are as people. It is a reflection of how these two connect.The topics they discuss range from love, death, ambition, religion, to every idea that comes from these two. All with the beautiful backdrop of Vienna.The problems that I have with this film is the pace of the film as it goes on for a little too long and some of the conversations aren't as interesting as others or the dialogue just doesn't deliver. Only a few times however.The film is beautifully made not just in its setting but in its dialogue. There's a game that the two of them play in one scene when they are pretending to have a conversation with one of their friends talking about each other and it is one of these most romantic scenes in the movie. I know it might be a slight spoil of the movie but I just couldn't help talking about it! (*fan girls just a little*)Sorry guys but I think I am going to end this blog. Its getting way too long but I will post the other too movies too. Score: 8/10


                
Before Sunrise follows a young man and woman who meet on a train and realize how good their chemistry is, so they decide to hang out for the rest of the night. As per usual, Ethan Hawke kills it. While I wouldn't call this his best performance, he's still fantastic. And same goes for Julie Delpy. She does a great job, and the two play off of each other so well. It's a relationship that was actually authentic. I bought the idea that these two people were this compatible and could form a relationship. The writing is fantastic. Partly the reason why these characters are so authentic and fleshed out is because they are both given personalities portrayed by amazing writing. Their characters are thought out and well developed by the end. Another thing that came as a surprise was the directing. There were a handful of shots that went on for several minutes, during which the characters just talked. They had a huge chunk of lines to memorize and they had to play these particular characters for the entire time, again proving how great the actors are. Sure, there was probably a lot of improvisation, but even then it's still impressive that they managed to stay in character that long. If I have but one problem with the movie it's that it could drag from time to time. Considering the movie is made up completely of conversations between two people over the course of several hours. It's not exactly exciting or riveting in plot, it's relaxed. And sometimes I felt like that too, maybe a little too much. Overall Before Sunrise is a very well-acted, written, and directed film that suffers from being a tad slow. While it isn't a movie I can see myself watching again anytime soon, I absolutely enjoyed it, and in the end I would recommend it.


                
I was looking for a movie which is not very glamorized and excessively made up but just a nice feel good. This movie somehow was satisfying. I love how the movie shows that things which aren't supposed to happen can be really nice and important if they get a chance to happen. Another reason to like it is because of the nice places they go and ordinary scenarios they come across. At some point, the movie does encourage some genuine feeling which takes us to similar experiences we had and the dilemma and excitement at the same time. That is one best quality and reason to get so many stars. I mean the guy asks a girl to change her trip within an hour of meeting her......


                
The "Before" trilogy is beautiful. I'm singling this one out because it's the starting point (despite not being my favourite, that honour would go to 'sunset'). Regardless whether watched as a trilogy or stood alone, this film explores young-adult relationships in such an honest way that you can't help falling in love with the characters.I found myself connecting with Celine (Julie Delpy) more than Hawke's Jesse, I almost found him insufferable at times. But this isn't because he was annoying or irrational or stupid, I simply found myself disagreeing with his point of view some of the time. And although this seems like some indictment on the quality of the film, this is far from the case. The film managed to suck me into the world so well that I questioned and pondered the points of views of the characters themselves rather than words of writers. And this couldn't, I believe, have been done without the master that is Linklater, able to craft these long takes of just talking; somehow keeping it captivating never letting my interest wane. The conversations were natural, almost seemingly improvised.The film is so honest, it lets the characters disagree, without superficially hyping up the drama, or putting a neat resolution on subtle disagreements. the awkward moments are on display just as much as the magical and romantic ones, and once again all without seeming artificial. I don't even see any point in describing the plot because that loses the element of spontaneity. But don't get me wrong the film isn't perfect, it has the occasional contrivances and maybe a more sentimental ending than I had hoped for, that is either helped or hindered by the awareness of a sequel. But do watch the sequel its even more interesting. But for now watch this, this film pure and beautiful film-making.


                
