The movie started off well, with Prof X jailed and drugged in a DIY hideout maintained by Wolvie and Caliban. Pierce is a great villain, but there's no payoff with his abilities or menace. He's simply the foreman for the evil corporation that is growing test tube mutants and hunting them down. Besides having one robotic hand, him or his Reavers don't really have any glaring cybernetic advantages. It would have been interesting to see different types of cyborg Reavers as in the comics, but in this movie, they are simply claw fodder.Once the introduction of Wolvie's clone begins, the movie goes downhill. We know nothing as to how or why this clone suddenly appears. Why wouldn't there be clones of all the X-Men at this point? Wasn't it already proved in the most awful of its series, Terminator Genisys, that Arnold vs Younger Arnold is not that captivating? Why would it work in this movie? Why not make Pierce a more capable and challenging villain?Once the Prof is whacked, as well as the kind family that sheltered them, I really began to lose interest. What's the point of heroes if they can't protect the good and innocent? The ending made no sense. At the beginning, Lara takes on 20+ Reavers on her own. After being reunited with 10+ other powerful, trained killer mutant kids, they are running away and being captured by the same number of Reavers? It makes NO SENSE. I'm CONVINCED that the movie critic industry is PAID or compensated in some way by the studios to produce positive reviews to DUPE, bait and switch audiences all for $$$ because this movie is currently 77 on Metacritic when it should be a 37. Good violence, poor writing, sloppy ending is what you really get.Its truly sad that a Wolverine movie has yet to be made well. Will never watch another movie by Mangold ever again. Learned my lesson. Save your $ and wait til this streams. Trust me, you'll thank me later. This is also part of the reason why IMDb shut down their message boards. Not to silence the haters, but to silence the voices of critical yet honest reviewers that ultimately hurts the $ of the movie industry.
Acting and CGI was great, even the story was great too.But the HUGE, HUGE, HUGEEEE plot holes killed it for me, making the film unbearable to watch.*spoilers*1. Why did Logan not kill the Dr, the clone, and Donald Pierce while they were laying defenseless and half dead at the farm?2. Why did the black farmer attempt to kill Logan after killing the shaved clone Logan? Logan was clearly standing in a non-aggressive manner and even let himself get shot without saying a word???3. How did Charles Xaivier not detect that the Logan clone was not a mutant or not human? His power is to read minds and detect life... How didn't he realize a robot has just walked into the room and sense he was about to be killed???4. The year is 2029 and the army has not developed the technology to capture kids safely? Hell even a net gun or taser would have worked better than tackling the kids? WTF. They even had harpoon guns that do not kill and they didn't use them on the kids, instead they just chase them through the forrest...5. In the final scenes the children take turns using their power on Donald Pierce (just to make a cool montage), while Logan and Laura battle to death with the clone??6. The children are trained to kill and have no fear, yet they run away (from no one) while letting Logan fight the clone alone? They were 20 to 1 and they decide that it's time to run?7. Even though they were so pressed for time and had no time to save Logan, they make the time to have a burial for him? Also what the hell is with the cross they made? Were they taught religion while in killing school? Seems legit.SO yeah these points infuriated me.. Feel free to comment and rebuttal my points as I am keen to find out how nobody else is seeing these loopholes...
If you want to find intelligent people who are actually capable of reviewing a movie, then you have those here who have voted miserably for this movie The movie is full of errors and the story line is extremely predictable Following are some of the issues I found 1) Majority of the movie is cliché, you have a failing superhero, his ailing mentor and a young prodigy in a journey to save the young one. The mentor is taken out by the villain, makes the superhero very angry who in the end sacrifices himself, killing the villain and the young one goes free into an unclear future. Any person should be able to predict the ending of the movie after just watching 10 minutes of the start and here are people comparing this with the Dark Knight!!!! Unbelievable!!!! 2) The prey seems to be running after the predator in the movie. The kids with superpowers are already trained as shown in the movie. They are not poor scared souls, they are lethal, mentally and physically. You can see glimpses of that during the end, when they kill off the mercenaries ruthlessly. With their unique powers combined, its a surprise they were even once contained in a facility. Sometimes you can see the kinds wimping and crying and few moments later they freeze someone off or electrocute someone without remorse. 3) Logan witnesses a group of drones towards the end which makes him realize that the kids are in danger. Why on earth would a dozen surveillance drones move around in a bunch? Shouldn't they be spread out to do their job better or was their job to get noticed by wolverine 4) X-24 was shot by an adamantium bullet in the end which blew half his head off. When wolverine was shot by that bullet in X Men Origins he only lost his memory, another inconsistency. 5) Professor X knew well that they had a vicious mercenary group hell bent after them. Why on Earth would he then suggest that they spend the night at the Munsons'? That's the most stupid thing to do. Oh yes now I get it why, its so that the mutant wolverine can be introduced in the movie and it was the perfect time for him to die. Killed by someone who he thought was Logan, that's sure to get a lot of sympathy right there. 6)Logan clearly knows that they are supposed to keep a low profile, in spite of that he picks up a fight with the Reavers 7) The producers had this project nicely figured out. Kill Wolverine, kill professor X, earn a lot of sympathy and thereby earn a lot of money. Also keep a bunch of mutant kids alive so that in case they fall short of lunch money, well you know what they will be working on. There are scores of mistakes with the story line but I do not wish to waste any more of my time so my advice for those who haven't watched this movie yet, don't.
Warning Warning Warning Warning The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!!-------------------- This review contains spoilers RIGHT FROM THE BEGINNING --------- ---A completely morbid and joyless film. Grim and hopeless to the point to depravity! The ignominious death fashioned for Charles Xavier is unworthy -- given the legacy of this character. Equally distasteful are the not so subtle suggestions that this film or its characters are comparable to Shane. This self-service association is entirely unearned and borders on heresy. You could have done so much better with a modicum of imagination and heart. When I saw the coming attractions it left me feeling miserable. I though "Who would possible want to see such a grim and hopeless film?". As an owner of copies of the previous two films and most X-men movies, I went to see it anyway. I left the theater feeling even worse than I did after viewing the coming attractions.The rating of 3 out of 10 rather than 2 out of 10 is for the visceral depiction of the effects of Professor X's 'brainstorm' That part was very well doneAside from that, thanks for nothing guys. Eat soup and cough!
I created an IMDb account solely for the purpose of reviewing this movie and to give it a more honest and accurate rating. It says it has an 8.5 rating, but really it should be more like a 1 or 1.5, seriously. What happened to people? Is this really the standard for a good movie nowadays? I will spare you the suffering of going into great detail about every little flaw in this movie. With that said, here are some of the reasons why this movie sucks:1. No explanation of the events that have transpired to get to this point. Logan has apparently decided to become a limo driver to make money so that he and Charles can go live on a boat somewhere in the middle of the ocean? Really? And what happened to the other mutants? Supposedly there was some kind of "event" that I guess killed off all the mutants and also stopped them from breeding more mutants. It's hard to say because the movie makes no attempt to clue you in on what has happened.2. No plot. Besides being lost from the very beginning, nothing really happens throughout the entire movie to progress the story. Logan just drives this little girl and Charles cross country while being chased by some random bad guys who eventually catch up with them -- there's a fight -- more driving -- they get caught again -- rinse and repeat.3. Who is this Wolverine clone? Where did he come from? how was he made? what is he doing here? Want answers? You get none. He's just there.4. Both Charles and Logan die in the most anticlimactic and meaningless ways.The positives:1. Hugh Jackman
Mindbogglingly bad film. I can't believe there are so many people saying lyrical things about it. Is this really what substitutes a good film in the year 2017? Come on.The story is just so stupid and totally full of holes, right from the get go. Scene 1: Logan is sleeping it off in his fancy limo when he is woken by some Latino guys that are trying to steal his rims. The car is jacked up and we clearly see them loosening the nuts of one of the tires. Logan slashes them up, removes the jack and then drives off real fast. Eh... what about that loose tire? And so on, stupidity after stupidity, through the whole film!There are people praising the characters. The characters, really? A bunch of morons completely and frustratingly unable to communicate with each other, unable to make any logical or reasonable decisions, and so utterly predictable. Charles constantly (more or less subtly) telling Logan that he is a stupid and unloved oaf, is that like peoples idea of cinematic tension between characters, showing profound depths of humanity? Seriously, tripe.And the action... I mean honestly, after like the 10th goon has had his eyes poked out by Logan or mini-girly-Spanish-I-can-suddenly-speak- English-where-the-h**l-did-I-learn-that-Logan it's not really that fascinating. Oh look, the spikes can come out through this side of the skull too, whey! Yes, a lot of people do get killed, slashed, maimed, decapitated, etc. in this film, but that does not make it great. Not by a long shot.There is seriously nothing great about this film. So just avoid it. Or watch it and waste a couple of hours of your life like I did of mine.
This is highly overrated. This is nowhere near as good as critics say it is. 1 star for the little girl.The X-MEN series has always been filled with continuity errors. The first 3 movies were pretty consistent. Then there were prequels telling stories that contradict the old trilogy. Hey! Remember Mystique? She is said to be of the same age with Charles Xavier in the prequels, whereas in the old trilogy, well...Also, the franchise has never been consistent in style. Most of the previous X-MEN movies are PG-13, quite typical for Marvel movies. This time it is R. However, there is not much difference, only more blood but not by much.The story does not make sense here and there. For example, had they shot the enemy instead of keeping him alive and attempting to dump him in the middle of nowhere, they could have avoided a lot of trouble later on. The Wolverine died saving a bunch of little mutant shitheads nobody cares about, who later on stood over his tomb, exchanging weird glances and as Laura quoted from an old movie, they seemed to be thinking, "What the F..K is she babbling about?" Clearly they haven't seen the old movie. Not to mention that the whole "Save Laura" Operation was based on a nurse who read lots of comic books. Who wrote the books?The movie educates us: 1. Never let the enemy off easily. 2. Never trust the comic books.
I am a fan of the X-Men movies. They are all fun and exciting to watch. They are also beautiful to see. This is not true for Logan. Sadly.The movie isn't fun, the surroundings are sad. The same for the characters. To see beloved heroes turn into decadent sad characters is awful.They do die has heroes. But very broken ones.Other characters are poorly written.And I got the felling, at the end, that the "bad guys" were stronger, even if the mutant children got away. With the death of Logan, they run away into the woods, scared. No teacher left behind to guide them and teach them to manage their abilities and hopefully save the world.No. They are left alone in a dark world. Their hero was a drunken sad Logan, that didn't taught anything positive.Sad, sad, sad. And ugly.
Quite possibly the worst Marvel Movie of all time. Yet another movie that baffles me with the high praises surrounding it.The story line is nothing but depressing. No part of the information that is being offered explains why Logan would end up in that living situation or where all the already existing mutants are while this is happening. The plot is full of logic holes and too much of it simply doesn't make any sense. I have no idea why this movie was made.


                
This movie takes place in an alternate universe, where somebody (probably Apocalypse) has unleashed a terrible radiation on planet Earth, turning all of its inhabitants into total morons and losers. So, if you're interested in seeing your favorite X-Men heroes totally humiliate themselves and literally act like they are mentally retarded, then go ahead and watch this movie.You will see the incredible X-Men reduced to swearing, bickering, tantrum-throwing teenagers, shopping in an indoor mall, then sitting around in their hotel room and watching crappy reruns on TV. No joke, that all really happens in this movie.As usual, it hurts me very deeply to see my favorite childhood heroes utterly humiliated and destroyed by Hollywood. The underlying message of this movie seems to be that the Age of Heroes is dead. There is no beauty left in the world, no hope, no shining intelligent ideas or dreams. That has all been replaced by shallow, empty scriptwriters and greedy, ruthless movie producers. So watch this movie and say goodbye to your childhood heroes on more time, because (as usual in these terrible X-Men movies) they all die.
Warning: This review may contain opinions that qualify as spoilers. Rewind to the year 2000 when X-Men finally arrives on the big screen. Logan is a wild animal fighting in a cage for money with no memory of his past. Angry and disgusted with who and what he is he just wants revenge on the world. Enter Professor Xavier and the X-Men. Wolverine finds people who accept him, even like him oddly enough, and someone in the form of Jean Grey in whom he could maybe even find love. Armed with a new found purpose and backed by a family that believes in him Logan changes from a dangerous animal to an invincible super hero worthy of legend.Fast forward to 2017. Logan is a shadow of his former self as is Professor X. There are no more heroes in America. Corporations can do whatever they want. Good people who still believe in heroes or are heroes themselves just by raising a good family with American values will become casualties. There is no stopping an automated future. Your heroes are NOT invincible. Do not look to the next generation for hope. This was not a superhero movie but a dystopian pipe dream.I would have been happier seeing gun toting thugs lined up on either side of Wolverine and 2 hours of him perforating their skulls one at a time. Much more entertaining and save a ton of money on useless writing staff. Could even CGI the whole thing, box office smash.Do not be surprised when Hollywood kills off a few of the Avengers next.


                
I've loved the character of Logan. To have his story end like this is a disservice to every Wolverine movie that came before it. Grindingly depressing.
SpoilerI don't even know where to start. The amount of plot holes is just crazy. The fact that the all the people writing and directing this know nothing of Marvel's world is amazing. of all the excuses for a world without mutants they went with... I won't even tell you. In the end why did none of the kids help Logan? A whole crew of "weapons" not one did anything to help. Just weak, so very very weak. To whomever said this was Xmen's Dark Knight. Shame on you. Shame. Shame. Shame. If you are looking for a summary. Logan is an uber driver, he has to take his clone to North Dakota while avoiding his Clone and people who make clones. Corn Syrup is bad for you, and kills mutants. Oh and Hugh Jackman can finally move on with his life.


                
I'm so sorry that I went to see this movie, I liked the other x-men movies , but this one was absolutely awful. Who wrote this script was absolutely crazy. The script makes no sense. How the hell all the mutants were extincted? And how so, just 3 mutants were left (professor , wolverine and the fuk white face) There's no explanation about how it's possible that wolverine to be poisoned by the Adamantium. I can't even find the desire to write about this awful movie ! There's no point , they just killed the x-men. Shame on you !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
As usual with all previous X-men movies i approach to this one with big anticipation, which didn't let me down with previous ones... But with Logan? The movie is one big agony for spectators, as also for the characters playing their agonistic, pathetic roles... Poor plot, no explanation how happened that once mighty Wolverine becomes old, injured, with almost no (or progressive lower) self healing ability, alcoholic... with his final pathetic wish to get on the boat and retreat from the rest of the world, with (even older and more sick) once great head of all mutants Charles Xavier, which also becomes pathetic... And, what happened with other co-Wolverine and Xavier X-men from the past??? Forget about it... Not a word about them... like they never exist...One thing disturbed me particularly; the brutal violence, presented so intense, with so messy-bloody scenes which never seen before in previous movies... Disappointing, that otherwise brilliant Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart accepted the roles in such bad script...
I can't get that time back. Somehow Wolverine is now old and dying. And has the ambition to run away on a boat. Enter bad guys and new mutants, lots of violence and ..... I kept waiting for something to happen. But it didn't. I kept hoping that they wouldn't do the next expected thing, but they did. Don't waste your time on this one. You can't get the time back.
This movie is depressing and riddled with plot holes and contradictions with generally accepted lore. I didn't realize that this movie is based off of a different range of comics that depict this darker, older bunch of characters and apparently it relates to that range quite well. However most viewers aren't comic connoisseurs and will have their knowledge from the previous movies, the comics and cartoons they were watching as a child and anything that the movie itself would present during its showing. Logan, however, does very little to explain the background of the setting or the characters. The actors do a great job of acting but it's lost on the viewer when you have no idea why things are happening in the movie. If the writers of this movie were focusing on a non standard lore path they should have made damn sure the viewer was more comfortable with the new, and contradicting, environment they're presented with and not assume we've read or even appreciated the alternative story line. There are so many wtf moments when things don't gel in this movie that I can't recommend this to anyone.


                
Notice the positive reviews of this and every other XMen/Wolverine  movie. They all claim "masterpiece", "the best superhero movie  eveeeeeeeeeeeer", and "this is how you make a superhero movie".  The positive reviews are canned, scripted, generated by publicists.  This movie wants to be Terminator. It even uses similar music as the  perfect killing machine stalks a little girl protected by the imperfect  killing machine.  Like other Boreverine movies, this one takes away Wolverine's healing  because the writers don't know how to handle it. The Wolverine from the  comic books is weakened and supposedly humanized. But what's left is a  Wolverine bereft of what makes him super and bereft of all emotion.  Can we get a superhero movie that's about a hero?


                
Complete garbage. If they make a x23 movie hopefully dakken will show up and kill her. That will be ten times better. Hell let anyone kill this joke of a character. Marvel is run by a bunch of idiots right now. Kill off wolverine and give us this crap as a replacement, I was cheering for the reavers to win.The old man Logan story killed this waste of time and money. Do yourself a favor and just read the real Logan/wolverine comics.


                
This movie is absolute trash. Insanely boring. The worst Wolverine by far. If you like sad, sappy movies hardly any action then you will love this. If you are a die hard hard X-Men and Wolverine fan you will sorely be disappointed. I've tried watching it more than once to give it a shot and nothing. Each time I watch it, I hate it more and more.


                
This is the perfect movie treat for fans of the Wolverine character as portrayed by Hugh Jackman in films. Period. I won't argue with that. And you can tell as much by just checking the titles of the "Five Stars!" reviews here at IMDb. Yep, it's exactly what this movie is. And by the way I am not a "fan" of the Wolverine comic books, I happen to like a few of them from the 80s. So I don't go to the cinema expecting to see a comic book I already have in my shelves. So what did I find in this film? A boring, unoriginal and unimaginative movie, willing to satisfy the appetites of fans left open in prior attempts of the franchise, full of moronic routines I won't bother to list. The occasional comedy moments are jokes based around the walking disability of a character, so expect the laughs to border the derogatory. And the choreographed "over the top" slashing violence quickly becomes dull and repetitive. Plus... there is also a lot of violence dispensed to kids, and by kids. Kids are shot, stabbed and kicked -a lot. And in turn the same kids stab back, slash back, electrify and decapitate. Which is creepy if you ask me, as for this alone the film merits to be a horror movie -which it ain't. Last, lots of people are saying the story is based in a comic book series titled OLD MAN LOGAN. OK, please don't. Because in this film (do I need to say... SPOILERS AHEAD?) Wolverine, now Logan, works as a limo driver to make money and buy anti seizure medication for Prof. X and hopes to make enough dough to buy a boat and go live in the middle of the ocean with same Prof. X. Do you find any resemblance in that with the comic book series? I guess not. The only thing in common with OLD MAN LOGAN is that Logan is OLD. End of similarities. Yeah, just skip it I guess.
I'm not going to waste a whole lot of time breaking down the movie Logan. There are over one thousand user reviews on IMDb and by now interest in this movie has waned, plenty of people have already critiqued it in detail and added to that, few people will stumble upon the page of reviews that mine ends up on. And as wordy as I am, I'm ironically just posting this review to save people time that could be better spent elsewhere. So here goes... my fast reviewSKIP TO HERE-Have you seen Children of Men? If you have, you've already seen this movie. Logan is Children of Men's future for mutants. If you haven't, watch Children of Men instead. It's not the best, but it's better than Logan (as always, Michael Caine > Patrick Stewart)-Do you know what Oscar Bait is? If you do, take my word for it. This is the best way to describe Logan (although the idea that anyone involved in Logan could be so delusional as to think that this movie would receive consideration would actually be legitimately depressing as opposed to the shallow feeling of dreariness it tries to create. If that was the goal all along then it is genius. Bravo! But honestly... nothing against the cast, but there are no Oscar worthy performances here. There is no best written screenplay here. And as for the biggest awards, did anyone really think this would be the Sci-Fi movie that pulled it off?)If you do not know what Oscar Bait is, google it and read the wiki definition or even better read the one from TV Tropes (http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/OscarBait). Oscar Bait movies are the kind of movies that think being sad and depressing equals art. They try to appeal to the crowd that avoids films that are well liked in general. For them, a happy ending is cheesy, it's for the masses, it's less creative. Sad endings, they believe, are brave and smart and edgy and above all, more deserving of the word "art." In reality, this is of course complete garbage. A well written good ending takes just as much effort to create as a bad one.Logan attempted to go "artsy" and "dark" and it felt shallow and clichéd. For me, the whole story was a very lazy way to explain why Hugh Jackman looks too old now and why Logan the character is no longer regenerating. It isn't original or ground breaking; it ripped off a movie that isn't even old, as if everyone would have forgotten that Children of Men existed, which I'm sure if I did some reading, would turn out to be not entirely original itself. I'm not about to say that films with sad endings are always like this. Some of my favorite films of all time have sad endings. Cuckoo's Nest, Aviator, Midnight Cowboy (though a little uplifting too), sometimes artists have a story to tell and those stories don't always end well for everyone involved. (side note, does anyone else but me think that Coming to America has the happiest ending of all time? Even Daryl finds happiness in the end, everyone wins! anyways..) So don't think that I'm biased against films that do go dark, I just want for them to be done well and with honesty. So what if comic books are what we read as kids in order to escape how awful reality really is and how rarely the good guy wins. So what if super-heroes exist because of how appealing the fantasies they create are and satisfying it is to envision a world where justice always prevails and nothing bad ever happens to good and innocent people. If you want to go dark and depressing do it! Just don't be lazy about it, put a little effort into it. Be sad if you want to just have an engaging and original story to tell. Maybe they should have done to Wolverine what the franchise did to Cyclops. If you can't come up with something clever just kill him off-screen instead. I'm trying to figure out which death is more disrespectful to the source material and fans of the character. I'm also trying to figure out why the X-Men get so many chances after failing more times than not, while my Punisher gets screwed up one time and then gets banished to the small screen. ...Well I guess my review ended up a little longer than I originally intended. Sorry I'm so wordy, I just don't get out much and when I do I'm usually pretty quiet so when I get the chance to speak or communicate I end up abusing it and I never know when to..... .. I'll attempt to make up for it, I'll make that fast (rant free) review now.... here goes....SKIP TO HERE INSTEADLogan is Oscar Bait. It is lazy unoriginal garbage that takes itself way too seriously.
Who wrote this stuff? it's god awful. The blood and gore don't bother me,but the stupid predictable,idiotic decisions do. No person would ever take those decisions. I have not read these comic that this "new" old wussifed Logan/wolverine is based on,but based on this movie,I haven't really missed out on anything.If you take out the mutant element of this movie,it's your average generic slow burner drama ,with a hint of action.Long dragged out dialogue,with no real purpose. Half spoken sentences.And of course the anti hero, who makes all the wrong decisions that makes a B movie. 4-5 times Logan could have easily killed the main antagonist, and just ended the whole pursuit and killing of innocent.But every time he runs away instead,just so you can have the final show down.And even than he fights like a girl I was actually hoping someone would just put him out of his misery


                
This movie was pointless, hopeless and completely miserable from beginning to the end. All of the X men are dead, mutants are extinct and we watch the final sad moments of our favorite characters lives, Charles and Logan, before we watch them die. Thank you for killing this world completely, my favorite fantasy and they choked it! I seriously feel like a part of me has died. I wish they had stopped after last one and let us keep our fantasy.
This is without doubt, the saddest Marvel release EVER!!! Who ever wrote this should be taken out and shot at dawn and all the money they were paid should be put into a charity fund for the homeless(more to the point to fund poor writers who could have run rings around the untalented butt clowns that wrote this travesty of biblical proportions).The previous X-men films have all been top notch, high quality efforts that have not only been faithful to the comics that made them possible but have been well written with super acting and masterful story telling.This mess of a film has ruined so much of what I liked about the original X-Men films that this fan is not going to spend money going to see any more X-men films at the movies. I'm that upset about this rubbish.The most important thing about Super Hero style movies is that people like this fan, go to see HEROES WIN AND SAVE THE DAY. I'm sorry if a few unmentionables can't handle that or find the concept trite or boring etc, but the world needs Super heroes, not super loosers.The only saving grace of this film was the young troupe of new mutants(genetically engineered mutants). Sadly as I hope your getting the idea, the whole concept ruins the ideas that came before and more to the point Wolverine(I'm not going to call this character by the name that belongs to this terrible movie ever again), totally destroys the place of his origin. Zip, NADA, nothing left folks, so this whole story is a complete pile of badly written 'what if' at best.Don't let this be the first (and last) X-Men film you ever see. Skip this one and enjoy the glorious other movies that Marvel has put out. This movie was so bad, they didn't even have a snippet clip at the end of the movie(even Marvel must have realised it would be wasting it's time doing so with this one, because most of the people in the cinema I saw it in, walked out as soon as the credits started rolling and all I heard where numerous comments about how bad they found the movie).So no spoilers to give on this one fellow movie fans because the entire movie is a spoiler. A spoiler for some of the greatest super hero movies ever made and should be avoided like the plague.


                
