Logan is the 2017 movie everyone has been anticipating after two great trailers and a R rating it delivers a surprising amount of heart to characters we have grown to love and know and also balancing a surprising amount of action within the first and third act climax, its violent but not blood for blood sake every cut is with reason.Logan presents us with Logan (Wolverine), Professor X and Laura (X-23) and by definition its an escort mission involving X-23 but shes more capable than Logan and Professor X thinks and shes able to fend for herself. Logan is old and a grizzled shadow of what he once was and by going on this mission he unlocks some of the old wolverine inside of him and we see bursts of that throughout the movie, Logan also begins to realize things about himself through the vision of this little girl because they have striking similarities.Every scene in this film feels necessary from the character development to the humor and action nothing is forced everything comes off natural which is a breath of fresh air and I was very pleased with it, I believe that this movie will be very well received by fans as it treats its characters with such care and embarks on an emotional and satisfying conclusion to Hugh Jackmans Logan (Wolverine).
"Logan" is directed by James Mangold and stars Hugh Jackman for one final go around as Wolverine. With an R Rating secured, something the previous two Wolverine films should have had, "Logan" was bound to be fantastic. It wasn't fantastic. It was phenomenal.If you are going into "Logan" expecting every scene to just be Wolverine tearing people to shreds you'll be thoroughly disappointed. This is definitely not an action film. There are action sequences in the film, but they are not the main focus of the movie like the previous 2 Wolverine movies tried to make them be. "Logan" is a grounded film, a film that really takes its time to tell its story and to develop its characters. It's a character-driven film, and it probably has the most characterization in an X-Men film to date. We get enough of Wolverine's backstory within the first few minutes to really become attached to him (if we already weren't). We learn more about Professor X and what he has been doing, and then there's this little girl, who probably should be annoying, but luckily isn't and that was a sigh of relief. This girl, Laura, is the star of the show. It is really "her" movie. All of the sequences with Laura were riveting. There was that sense of mystery to her character that you wouldn't really expect from a film like this. You don't ever really know what her next move is going to be. Her motivation to find a safe haven is so well felt in this film that it just brings you a sigh of relief that there is still a sense of good out there in the world of this film where everything seems dark, bleak, and hopeless. Hugh Jackman's performance. Yeah the dude gave it his all. This is by far Hugh Jackman's best performance as Wolverine. We've never seen Wolverine this vulnerable. He's old, he's broken down, he's beaten. He can't heal like he used to. The conviction from Hugh Jackman in this movie was just spot on and really captured the ways Wolverine felt at certain moments. It added layers to this film. When Wolverine gets into a fight, Hugh Jackman is so good in these scenes it's like he got into a fight with the filmmakers on set.This film does not hold back from a violence standpoint. From the get go, you know what type of movie you are in for. It is brutally violent, by far the most violent X-Men film w have gotten. Wolverine hacks, claws, and slashes his way through skirmishes with blood, guts, and gore flying. If this is what you had always wanted from a Wolverine movie and haven't gotten it up to this point, well this movie gives you all of that. From a violence standpoint, the violence is there when the film calls for it. It is not violent for the sake of being violent. This is a film that puts its characters and story first before anything else, with violence being a secondary element to help propel the story along and to create tension. It is in the scenes where it should be. If this were just an all-out 2 hour and 20 minute "hack-and-slash" fest this film would have no depth to it. It would look cool, but giving Hugh Jackman the proper sendoff was what was more important in a film like this.This film at times gets downright emotional. The final scene of the film makes you wanna cry. You care about these characters, you are invested in them. You don't want to see them put in harm's way. Even in the scenes where the film may feel a bit slow, the final act of the film is the payoff. This is where everything really meshes together with a force, creating a pulse-pounding, edge of your seat final sendoff for Hugh Jackman as he retires from the role. This is by far the best Wolverine movie and possibly the best X-Men movie to date. I haven't decided yet. It's up there, and it deserves to be. Everything payed off in this film. It is emotional. It is character driven. It has heart. It is emotional. This is everything anyone could have wanted in a Wolverine film.From me "Logan" gets a perfect 10/10.
The word 'perfect' is very objective especially when it comes to film. While Logan may not be a perfect film, it is most certainly a perfect comic book film. It is a masterpiece of the most epic proportions and leaves us with a brilliant swan song for producer and star Hugh Jackman in his final outing as Wolverine. The film, directed brilliantly by James Mangold, is a two plus hour comic book fan's wet dream as we see the version of Wolverine every fan has wanted to see for nearly two decades. While many will be very sad to see Jackman step down from the role, he couldn't have picked a better or more satisfying film to end his cinematic legacy with.The film takes place in 2029 and shows the world in shambles. Mutants are nearly extinct, water is scarce and the world is just an overall wasteland. This is where we find Logan. He is a limo driving cantankerous caretaker to an even more cantankerous Professor X, who is now suffering from dementia and seizures. He is a borderline alcoholic suffering from a mysterious illness that limits his mutant abilities. Due to this, he lives this quiet life until he meets a young girl who he feels he must protect. Without giving too much away, there is much more here than I can go into but I will say, if you are a fan of the Wolverine comics, this film will bring a tear to your eye. This is probably the most faithful adaptation of a comic book character EVER, Marvel and DC combined. The way the story goes, the way Logan behaves, the selflessness and the rage, this is an all around realized version of this character. While it may have taken a little longer than it should have, this film was worth the wait. James Mangold does a fantastic job at creating the world Logan knows now. This is more of a film like Mangold's 3:10 to Yuma. It is bleak, violent and absolutely heartbreaking. This is far from the PG-13 character we're used to. This is a foul mouthed, miserable and very VERY bloody rendition of the source material. This is a film very much like The Guantlet or Badlands, a crime thriller and on-the-road drama. It very much embodies the look and feel of a film from the mid-70s and it plays to this very well. The performances in this film are amazing. Hugh Jackman's performance here is the best as the character and may be one of the best of his career. He is miserable and broken in this film and to see him like this as the character, it is bittersweet especially because Jackman has been so attached to this role. If he hurts, we hurt. If he's mad, we're mad. It is a true testament to Jackman as an actor to make his audience feel this connected to someone who is, by traditional standards, completely unrelateable. Boyd Holbrook brings a sinister performance to this and continues to build a very impressive resume. Holbrook is someone who you'll love to hate. The real standout performance here is from Dafne Keen who plays Laura. Without giving away any spoilers, she is BADASS in this film and even gives Logan a run for his money on the brutality.Overall, Logan is a perfect comic book adaptation that is as heartbreaking as it is visually stunning. Mangold and Jackman create a special film with this that should be talked about for years to come. Believe the hype, Logan is a seriously amazing comic book film that just may be the best ever made and embodies the definition of a perfect adaptation.


                
Holy Cow! We've finally got the Wolverine movie we've all been waiting for and then some! Mr. Mangold has nailed the character and the action, and Hugh Jackman is truly a part of a Wolverine movie that has showcased the true character that the fans had hoped to see full on. Yes, we've seen superb runs and flashes but nothing this deep or this epic.How could any movie fan in general not just adore this film? It brought elements of a lot of great genres. Logan has to be considered genre-defining. The characters, action and story were all beyond outstanding in this movie. We are taken for a ride and can relate to Logan once again. The acting is superb and the dialogue is perfect for the level of each character. Every single character feels believable. You follow the story through Logan's eyes and what a ride it turns out to be. This movie is emotional and moving in every single way that matters and is unique and is as far away from anything X-Men we've seen before. In this case, that's a very good thing. The fight scenes and pace are superb. I honestly could see Oscar nominations here on multiple fronts.This movie is sophisticated and delivers a grand, tragic story. The action fits in nice but serves the story first. Unlike other "dark" films, the tone is perfect and fits the character. The supporting characters are utilized in a comprehensive and cohesive manner and are wonderful in and of themselves. I loved everything about this movie and they left it as if this was the perfect end to Hugh's run.


                
we finally get the Wolverine we have been asking for, for the past 15 years and it's his last time. Well i guess he couldn't have ended it in any better way as a last farewell to the fans and his signature role. Not only that but it looks like this one blows all the other superhero movies out of the water and i hope you Weebs go pay for your ticket to see this as well instead of watching a cam version online so we send the message that we want more of these kind of movies.
This is a wolverine movie aimed at adults and definitely not for small children. The story is set in the future and Logan is taking care of Charles Xavier who has grown old and is incapable of taking care of himself. Logan, himself is now older and his health is slowly deteriorating as well. A young girl mutant enters their lives which sets off a story, which is not about super heroes fighting bad guys, but one that is on a more human level. "Logan", is a beautifully made X-Men film that deals with themes of importance of family, loyalty, and ultimately how Logan himself deals with new found emotions which he is experiencing for the very first time in his life.This is the crowning achievement in Hugh Jackman's role as Wolverine. It is the movie he and director, James Mangold had always wanted to make. It is a dramatic work of art and for X-Men fans, has plenty of action and special FX which are a definite cut above anything that has been seen before in Wolverine/X-Men films.A MUST SEE FOR ANY FAN AND A GOOD ENOUGH FILM TO STAND ALONE FOR ANYONE!!


                
LOGAN is brutal, merciless and powerful. This is a character-driven superhero movie done right. I would even dare to say it's better than many of the previous X-Men installments and spinoffs. And if this is indeed Hugh Jackman's final Wolverine movie, then my goodness, what a helluva way to go out in a blaze of glory.The story is set in the near future, mutants are thinning out. They've either died or been hunted down. Logan's (Hugh Jackman) healing power is not as strong as it used to be. He's old and weary and taking care of professor X (Patrick Stewart) in a hideout on the Mexican border, accompanied by Caliban (Stephen Merchant). But their attempt to hide from the world gets interrupted when dark forces arrive at their doorstep looking for a certain young little girl.Great move on the studio's and filmmakers' part to have this film be rated R because what we get here is Wolverine unleashed. The violence is as graphic and fully exposed as you can imagine it to be. So just that aspect alone will excite the fanbase who's been wanting to see the destruction that could take place when Wolverine is really really angry. Setting it on the border does allow the film to play with certain tones and color palette reminiscent to "Breaking Bad" for example, the film's ending however does provide a more vibrant environment as a base for an extremely bloody collision.The writing is solid for a superhero film, it really digs deep into these beloved characters, how vulnerable they are, how they long for a world where people would just leave them be. You truly feel for Xavier and Logan in a way that you never did in the previous X-Men movies, not only because they're now in their twilight years but there's also that father-son type of relationship that's tough love and endearing and then there's also the reluctant father daughter connection Logan has with X-23. By the way, the little girl, Dafne Keen, who plays X-23 is remarkable. So much force, so much energy, so much roar, she's like a cheetah that just runs and slices and dices left and right without prejudice, what an incredible young talent. This is a movie that gives you action to its fullest degree and an emotional journey that's uncompromising. The perfect film about the man who's the best at what he does but what he does isn't very nice.
Without question, this was Hugh Jackman's movie, from start to finish. No matter how you view it, or who the mantle is passed onto next, Jackman will forever be Wolverine, and this film proves it once and for all. Logan dives deep into the hearts of its viewers, twisting and turning until every emotional string is pulled, and in the end, delivers a superhero film like no other before it; a perfect swan song.Logan heavily, and fittingly, borrows from Marvel's iconic 'Old Man Logan' comic to tell the story of a grim and desolate future, where mutant-kind is all but extinct. Director/writer James Mangold was finally given all the tools necessary to tell a truly compelling Wolverine story, and arguably the biggest tool in the box was the 'R' rating. It pushes the film into an extremely dark and forbidding tone, which helps carve the movie into one of immense intensity and emotion. The 'R' rating, of course, also allows for studious amounts of gore and profanity, but those elements don't feel like they were added just because they could be, they only added to the atmosphere Mangold created for this film, and in turn helps set the narrative to be nothing short of enthralling. The pacing is spot on, the dialogue is stellar and the emotional weight is that of a moving mountain. I applaud Mangold for his brilliant writing, and subsequent directing, as he was at last able to produce the Wolverine story every fan has been craving for the last 17 years, one of raw emotion, brutality and pure magnificence.Hugh Jackman has devoted the last 17 years of his career to this beloved character, and now, he leaves it all on the table, giving the performance of a lifetime, one which could seriously garner some looks at an Oscar nomination. The writing of the characters, Wolverine specifically, stand out the most in the gritty setting, because few superhero movies have ever done what Logan is able to do; make the characters vulnerable, make them real and to make you truly care like never before. Wolverine is worn down and beaten, looking for a way out, and Hugh Jackman gives you every reason to want to feel for his character. His action scenes are nothing short of powerful, none more than his final, and the emotion he displays in every aspect is worthy of an award-winning performance. I genuinely cannot express my praise for Jackman enough, he gave it is all.Wolverine is accompanied by two spectacular supporting characters for most of the film in franchise favorite Professor X and the ferocious X-23. Both characters add tremendous layers of depth to both Wolverine and the film as a whole, with exceptional performances from Patrick Stewart and youngster Dafne Keen, who's X- 23 is an absolute showstopper. The main villain, Pierce, isn't anything too special, but doesn't have to be in a story like this. The core cast of Wolvie, Professor X and X-23 are what drive the film and the performances by their respective actors are outstanding. The father figure that Professor X is to Wolverine and the subsequent father that Wolverine is to X-23 is a deep, touching addition to their characters. This is no-doubt a character driven film, and with Wolverine in the driver's seat, and a pair of dynamite supporting characters, the ability to connect with these characters is real, and that is a treasure few superhero films have ever held.The film's action is gloriously vicious, showcasing what a hacking from Wolverine or X-23 would actually look like. But it's not just the heavy amounts of gore that make the action so amazing, it's again the feeling that these characters are in true danger and every move they make could cost them their lives, none more than Wolverine himself, whose reduced healing factor forces him into a different mindset that, outside of briefly in "The Wolverine", we've never seen before. He's not invincible, and even with X-23's relentless attacks, he still has to play his cards differently, and it translates into an emotional roller coaster. All together the action sequences and sheer amount of violence were a sight to behold, entertaining and fierce.17 years it has been, since we first watched a young Hugh Jackman don his X-Men suit. 17 years of stories, character development, action, hardship, humor and emotion, come together to deliver one final journey. The final scene alone may move you to tears, as Hugh Jackman's time as the iconic Wolverine comes to an end. One final epic masterpiece of superhero cinema; Logan.10/10


                
The final outing of Wolverine by Hugh Jackman is one unforgettable ride and one of the best comic-book movies in recent memory. Directed by James Mangold-who was also at the helm of "The Wolverine" (2013)- Logan creates a character-driven, violent and emotional film, which benefits from its rated-r rating. The acting, action and story of Logan are one-of-a-kinds in the superhero genre, as the cast, headed by Hugh Jackman, Patrick Stewart and newly- introduced Dafne Keen, play their characters to the fullest. It is unlike any other X-Men film, definitely the best in the series and deserves the praise it's getting.When I saw the first trailer drop, headlined by Johnny Cash's "Hurt", I instantly knew we would be getting something different from everything else that has dropped since the first X-Men film in 2000. The brutality and intensity of the characters pay off in this almost two-and-a- half hour that redefines the superhero genre, and I hope pays dividends for future movies to come. The introduction of X-23 was a big win as well. She is played by Dafne Keen, and though doesn't say much, plays her role very well. Her connection with both Hugh and Patrick creates a family-orientated environment that makes the movie a whole lot better, especially seen in certain scenes.Lastly, as much as I want the character of Wolverine to continue being played on the big screen, it would be better for everyone if they didn't re-cast the role, as no-one would be able to play the role much like the legendary Hugh Jackman. Overall, Mangold and the cast, create a masterfully orchestrated film that will be remembered for years to come. Not only is it a great film, but it is the last time we will be able to appreciate and witness Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart in the X-Men universe.


                
What happens when superheroes get old is the main and interesting question this movie answers. It's a question when you think of when you place superheroes in the real world. Logan is a great movie and I think one of the best superhero movies ever made. The movie so adult in its approach that I think even youngsters who read the comics will learn to grow into. The script, the action, the acting is all great and goes to show that you don't need over the top action and effects to tell a great story. This movie gave me what I wanted...a movie. Something you can watch, be taken away and talk about hours after you watch it. And you don't have to know anything about the mythology of the Xmen to enjoy this film.This movie has heart and is directed wonderfully by James Mangold. Hugh Jackman's final performance as Wolverine is his best performance to date because of the range of emotions he has to go through in this film. Great film, highly recommended.


                
Being a huge X-Men fan, I really hoped this movie would be good and all of the trailers looked amazing, so I went into the cinema with impossibly high hopes, even preparing myself for tears. What I got, however, was an actual punch in the stomach and, like, an hour of crying. This movie exceeded every hope I ever had entering the cinema.I'm actually having a hard time finding any negatives in this movie whatsoever. I wasn't particularly crazy about Dr Rice, but he's such a minor presence in this movie that I barely even noticed him. There are several villains in this movie, Dr Rice, Donald Pierce and X-24, but what I genuinely believe is going fairly unnoticed in all of the reviews I've read is Donald Pierce and Boyd Holbrook's portrayal of him. Honestly, I don't believe we've had such a good X-Men villain since Magneto, and that to me is really important now since we barely get any good villains in movies these days. Villains can be the most interesting part of a movie. I'm excited to watch Boyd's show "Narcos" now, and I plan on following his career from this moment on. X-24 is also a much better villain than I expected, serving as a sort of a shadow to Wolverine. Another highlight of the movie was Dafne Keen, the little girl that plays Laura. She is absolutely amazing, and I can't stress that enough. I want to briefly discuss the R rating. Honestly, it adds so much to the movie, and it's amazing to finally see Wolverine cut loose, swearing and slicing people up, it's amazing. And there is a lot of blood and swearing in this movie, which just adds on to this gloomy, gritty feel that lingers over this entire film, further pushing the notion that the dream is dead, that this is the end of the X-Men. It's truly depressing seeing this world where all of your childhood heroes are dead. In a way, I'm almost angry with the creators for twisting the X-Men so out of what we're used to, and that's another thing that I sort of have a problem with, even though nothing really could have been done about it. I don't really feel like the message of this movie, to give up after so many years of fighting, to just kill off everything goofy and colorful about the X-Men and shatter all of our hopes is necessary in a time like this. I think that as goofy as they are, X- Men movies and superhero movies in general just need to do what they were created to do - to raise hope in people that things will get better if we all work together and that we can find a family no matter how different we are. That's an important part as to why X-Men were created in the first place, to show minorities that they're not alone. Now we have a movie that shows mutants, a minority already hated by most of the "normal" people being killed off by the government, and I really don't think that's the message that was needed right now. However, "Logan" is a typical example of the director giving the audience what they want (a nostalgic, gritty Wolverine road trip movie) instead of what they need. In this case, it absolutely works because everything is so masterfully crafted, the cinematography is beautiful, the performances are amazing (Patrick Stewart and Hugh Jackman should seriously be up for an Oscar), the action, gore and script are ridiculously good, there is a compelling villain and it managed to hit an emotional nerve for me. I can't even consider giving it a lower than perfect score. I'm excited to see what Logan means for the superhero genre. It's definitely up there with the likes of "The Dark Knight". However, this movie can stand alone as something more than "just a superhero film", and as I've heard so many times before, superhero movies get old. It's time for a little change in the genre. While I can't say I'm particularly happy with the implied direction that the X-Men movies are taking after "Apocalypse" (even though the X-Men are my favorite superhero group ever, though people tend to forget all about comic books and animated series), I'm more than excited to see if they will ever again reach anything close to the masterpiece that is "Logan".


                
SPOILER: Did we need another X-Men movie? In fact did we need another Wolverine movie? Well the result is there for all to see, with Logan not only showing itself to be undoubtedly the best Wolverine venture by far, but arguably the best X-Men picture as well. If, as expected (and surely to god it's hoped so), this is the last we see of the grumpy metal clawed superhero, then what a fitting and triumphant bow out it is.James Mangold, the director, has managed to create an adult superhero movie without it really being a superhero pic, for he has created a film noir Western that happens to be about a superhero. Mangold's love of noir and Westerns bursts from the screen, which for those who follow those wonderful stands of cinema, will come as no surprise having seen with notice his Copland and 3:10 To Yuma redux. There's a perpetual grimness to the narrative that belies the quite often stunning surrounding locales, heavy themes such as men out of time - with destinies written (cue a deft comic book movie within a comic book chunk of metaphysics) - surrogates, mental illness, human ignorance, and on it goes, the narrative strong on intelligence as much as it is in wrought emotion. Western fans will also be buoyed by the part that the 1953 classic Western Shane has to play in things, considerably so as its importance narratively, orally and visually is mightily strong.Logan's Run!Ah yes, well being "adult" is all well and good, but is Logan thrilling? Do we get pumped up Wolverine action, blood brains, splatter and mucho muscle flexing and pained roars of anger? Oh yes! Action from the off is never far away, and wonderfully staged and choreographed it is. Lots of memorable set-pieces, while also some cleverly constructed sequences such as Xavier's mind seizures hold court and enthral. Yet the kicker with all that is we are clued in to the emotional baggage that the side-burn sporting protag carries with him. With each fight we sense the bigger picture, even as we watch in awe the emergence of Laura (ironic film noir name right there as it happens) - and her part in this very "human" story - the thrills and spills are propelled by a meaningful but battered heart.Tech credits are superb. Acting honours go to Jackman, who after giving 17 years of his life to the character, gives it his all and this multi faceted performance, in a perfect world, deserves Oscar recognition. Patrick Stewart, also, is immense, playing the nonagenarian Charles Xavier with such class, gracefulness and storming emotion that one can only admire. Film debutante Dafne Keen as Laura is utterly engrossing, quite a debut indeed, whilst Stephen Merchant as albino mutant tracker Caliban is effective to the point we hanker for more. Although the villains fronted by Boyd Holbrook (rote henchman leader) and Richard E. Grant (smarmy scientist git) just about pass muster, there's nothing to damage the piece. Cinematography (John Mathieson) is "A" grade, the filters set on neo-noir, with the splendid film noir black and white version a fillip for the heart of noir lovers. All that is left is for the sound mix to boom and the director to steer with heart, brain and soul, without doubt both come up trumps.One of 2017s best films, a genre splicer that ticks all the boxes of great film making. 10/10


                
Unlike many Marvel fans, I knew Wolverine before Hugh Jackman and didn't get to see the first X-Men in the cinema. I have always had a huge love of the X-Men comic franchise and in all the ups and very deep downs of the films, Hugh Jackman has been a consistent pleasure. Despite knowing the Wolverine character before Jackman, he was my Wolverine and can never be replaced.
This film works as a fond farewell and an entirely standalone, non-cannon story; it is rich in humour, subtlty, meaning and emotion. Few films have left me as affected. We will always want more, we will always want things to be different, but we need to learn to be okay with enough.


                
Comic book movies have been through an impressive change over the course of the years. Superman 1978 peaked the audiences' interest in the genre, allowing superheroes to become big budget superhero franchises. And it kept growing bigger with other films like batman 1989. It wasn't until the mid 90s to the late 90s that this genre started to fall. With shitty ass movies like batman and robin and steel, people started to give up on the superhero movies. Fast forward to 2008, iron man and the dark knight not only gained the audience back, but they allowed the genre to grow in an unbelievable rate, giving birth to the MCU. There are still some crappy films both in the MCU, DCEU and some in FOX x-men. Enter logan, the film that dares to challenge the superhero genre. Logan is easily the best superhero movie of all time and for good reasons: This is a phenomenal comic book movie. The most mature one as well. Now a lot of people say that this is a dark and gritty film and to an extent, they are right. But this is a film that gives us a harsh, harsh reality that wolverine, has to deal with. He is living in the shadow of his old self. He doesn't have his healing factor, making him incredibly vulnerable both physically and mentally. His physical health is awful, and works as a driver for living. The film is pretty simple in its plot. It's not about a hero in a spandex fight crime, it's about a survivor in a hostile world. Logan is trying to have a normal life but he just can't. He is constantly chased by his past and his animalistic nature, as well as his lone wolf attitude. He doesn't even seem to be happy taking care of his professor. He also meets X-23, played by Dafne Keen, who gives a phenomenal performance despite not given much dialogue. Their relationship is tragic and heartfelt to behold. It is truly tragic that all this time, logan does not care about the child, but when he finally makes a connection, he dies in the most brutal way possible. Seeing x-23 crying over her father was a giant tear jerker thanks to the emotions from these actors that they professionally display. Now there are other elements in the film to comment on: 1. The action: This is action done right in a superhero movie. Not only is it the best choreographed, but it is also fills you with intensity and adrenaline. It is brutal and does not hold back. The most impressive thing is that they finally made the action were you worry for the survival of this hero, that you're afraid he won't get out of the situation alive, which you don't see in big budget superhero movies like in DCEU or MCU 2. Simpler is sometimes better: This is a movie with not much complexity in its plot or a giant spectacle. As mentioned earlier, this is a survival drama film, which is most fitting for a character like wolverine. You did not need giant spectacle to deliver badass action sequences. 3. Letting the director do his job: Most superhero movies have studio interference that ruin the project at the end result (suicide squad, age of ultron, batman v superman etc). But since FOX gave up on doing anything due to the previous wolverine movies, they let director James Mangold do his job, and oh boy was the end result fantastic. Yes, logan is truly a phenomenal superhero movie that is a marvel (pun not intended) to behold. Leaving clichés such as quips and witty dialogue in order to deliver a tragic character journey that leaves you satisfied and emotionally destroyed. It is a soulful film with a lot of heart. 10/10
Once they were the strongest on earth. They could even change the course of history ... But something terrible happened and now they are no more.Logan - one of those units who are still alive, has already aged and drags on a miserable existence, working for pennies and watching how quickly his country and people around him are degrading. He no longer wants to participate in any conflicts, but simply wants to live in peace. But they do not give it to him. And even despite constant provocations, he does not want to harm anyone to anybody and attacks only when he is already being pressed. However, as you know, there is nothing more terrible than a beast driven into a corner. And then the offenders will regret that they dared to raise their hand against him and those close to him.This is a very deep and humane film about an outcast, no one needs a single person, for whom his whole very long life was a constant struggle. Life is full of wars, pain, suffering ... disappointment. He never knew what peace was. I did not know what it's like when you are really loved, when someone very much wants to be alive and close.Someone like him. The same tortured outcast is a loner.


                
Fantastic.
This film was as good as The Dark knight. By far my favorite superhero film of all time. Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart deserve Oscars and Dafnie Keene deserves the best young actress ever. 10/10 Best film of 2017.


                
I would like to start of by saying I am not a film critic, I am a future Doctor in Pharmacy hat loves movies. That being said when I see movies I look at them and judge them by this question, "Did the film maker or performer or whomever make me feel or think what they wanted me to feel or think?" So, I will start out by answering this question. Yes, Logan in every single way possible for me made me feel and think every single emotion, thought, etc. that they were trying to convey. I was on board for every second of this movie. The themes that this movie carries are so deep, and surprising uplifting for such a dark and brutal film. I have seen this movie five times since its release (4 in color and 1 in black/white) and by the end I am crying every single time Laura cries "daddy." The acting is superb, the direction style is fantastic, the music is incredibly haunting and beautiful, and more. But, I will finish this by saying that this is Hugh Jackman's magnum opus, and if he does not get at least an Oscar nomination for this I will be very disappointed. He laid it all on the line in this movie, and in my opinion elevated the entire genre of comic book movies with a sense of gravitas and subtlety that few leading actors have ever done in my opinion. In my opinion the film is perfect for what it set out to do. I think anyone who truly loves film should give it a view whether they love comic book movies or loathe the idea of them.
This Movie Was So Good. All Actors/Actresses Did An Outstanding Job.


                
I just finished watching LOGAN and -oh my god- what a dismal , outraging, dreadful and dumb bit of cinematic nihilism.. best marvel movie so far . although, it's too sad watching a era of x-man heroes goes... makes you feel old and a little bit lonely somehow..


                
If you are a Wolverine fan, this is your day. You can rejoice.Wow! What a film.It not only exceeds expectations( which were huge) but sets new benchmarks for superhero movies. I'm not going to discuss much of the story-line or spoilers here because its better you go and discover yourself what a gem it is. I never thought of writing a review of all those hundreds of films that I have seen but Logan compelled me to write one.There are two reasons for that.First I am a lifelong X- Men fan and Second- This was a rare movie that does justice to Wolverine.So be assured and go watch it before anyone else.A happy Farewell to Mr.Hugh Jackman.
Finally a good wolverine´s movie. Jackman does a great job. Patrick Stewart deserves an Oscar.


                
I always knew from the trailer it was going to be sad and in my opinion it was time for Marvel to take a new turn with their films about Wolverine. After watching the trailer and hearing "Hurt" by Johnny Cash it just hits even more on the way this film is going be. The acting is pretty much on the verge of perfect. Hugh Jackman pretty much plays a Wolverine that has almost given up on everything but when he needs to be the old Wolverine we get hit with a bit of nostalgia as he can be incredible brutal at times but when fighting you can tell he doesn't have much of the original Wolverine in him anymore and they show that incredibly well. Patrick Stewart plays a Charles Xavier that has a new "power" being the shape of seizures that affect everything around him and so relies of Logan even more to control them. Laura plays her role as a bad tempered teenager who for the most of the film just sits there and scowls, and will not hesitate to throw down over the smallest of things and the way she represents the character is on par with the way Hugh Jackman played the original Wolverine.Overall I am surprised that this film is not featured higher on the IMDB top 250 Rated Films. In my opinion this deserves to be at least in the top 50 area.


                
I had heard that this movie could stand alone as a good movie even if it had nothing to do with X-Men. That it can and does says a lot about where a lot of independent or stand-alone movies that feature special powers as a premise could be like. For me that is the strength of this movie. Beautifully filmed with wonderful locations, terrific action, brilliant acting and a tiny sprinkle of cgi, this is the masterclass of how movies could look in the future. Science Fiction is an immense library. I think Logan opens up a lot of possibilities.


                
Last time I was this affected after seeing a big-studio movie was when I saw Interstellar. I admit, there is some bias here, Wolverine has been part of my childhood and will always have a special place in my heart. I remember playing outside, holding three sticks between my fingers pretending to be the mutant, 'fighting' my friends who were cyclops, Sabretooth and Magneto. Watching this movie made me feel a strong blend of emotions, there was the cheering kid in me seeing Wolverine protecting the weak and back in action, the teenager enjoying all the violence and blood taken to the next level thanks to the R rating, and the adult in me appreciating the emotions, relationships and character development. This being said it is worth mentioning this is nothing like any other X-men movies. Logan is so much more mature, honest and raw. This is the conclusion Wolverine deserves. The character never truly fitted the family/mass-market/day-at-the-mall type of superhero movie. I was always bothered with how the previous x-men movies treated the character as, "Ok, he's a badass, but forget about seeing any cuts after he takes his claws out". Logan is finally the proper portrayal of Wolverine. It is almost like the R-rating finally gave the directors, producers and screenwriters the freedom to give us a more believable, almost tangible version of Wolverine. After seeing Logan it feels like you had seen all the previous X-men movies through rose-tinted glasses and you had suddenly taken them off. And that's a good thing. We have to thank our buddy Deadpool for setting a precedent and allowing this to happen.As for the acting, the cast did a superb job. Hugh Jackman really pulled off one of his strongest performances. Disagree with me as much as you like, but I'd say it's Oscar-worthy. You think he did well in The Fountain? You haven't seen nothing yet. Patrick Steward perfectly re-visited his character, but again this time this was a darker, less perfect and more human version. A few words about the plot: The movie perfectly presents a old, worn and sick Wolverine taking care of his even older and sicker 'father' Charles. Anyone who has ever experienced taking care of someone approaching to his last days can easily relate to the tension here. The first half of the movie very well explored these themes, of son taking care of both his dying dad and troublesome daughter. You can almost feel how tired Logan must be. Not physically, but psychologically. So much responsibility on his shoulders and none of it, something he sought. You get to see the most human and natural reaction to this: anger. Anger that he has so much to deal with. The weight is almost unbearable. Logan considers suicide. Could this be the short-cut to the peace he always sought? But of course, this is wolverine and he would never abandon his duties. So he stands up and fights. It is this character development and portrayal of emotions what really makes the movie feel so much more relatable and realistic than a typical emotionless superhero action movie. Enough about the drama aspects and a bit about the action: This is not an action movie. If you want to see Wolverine on a speeding train fighting assassins, go watch The Wolverine. This is much more about Logan, the man and his problems, than about Wolverine, the action hero and his stunts. This being said, the movie still has it's fair share of action and it is impressive, even if it includes a much weaker version of Wolverine. That is, until the end, when the mutant gets juiced up and we get to see what he's capable of. This time add the blood and gore and you'll end up with one of the best Wolverine action scenes ever.The ending:I appreciate the conclusive ending of the movie. That's it. Hugh knows it, we know it. There is no stupid arm punching through the grave with claws pointing up the sky in the after-scenes. As I said, this is not that kind of movie. I'll lie if I didn't feel sad. It was finally that a movie got the character right and 2 hours later it was all over. I also really enjoyed the somewhat smaller scale of the character's last battle. This was not a fight amongst falling skyscrapers that would decide the faith of mankind and the universe and the omniverse. No. That's for the Avengers. Perhaps for the X-men and Wolverine, but not for Logan. This was a battle for the lives of a few kids with mutant strenghts. Nothing big, just a few lives at stake, nothing barely comparable to what was at stake in Days of Future Past.Yet this was his largest battle. By fighting in the battle Logan fought for something that meant to him more than more than the world: His daughter and the one thing he never truly felt until his last breath - family and love. And that's worth dying for.Beautiful. Shakespearean. A battle for love not for saving the world. A battle that Logan had to fight, not the Wolverine. A battle won. "So that's what it feels like."
"So, this is what it feels like". The last words of Logan before his death. The first and last time he feels how death is, makes wolverine a perfect end. Nice screenplay and stunning act by Jackman. Though the movie lacks action compared to other X-men movies, the story makes LOGAN to the top of all X-men franchise. Excellent farewell to Wolverine. Hope that Hugh Jackman will continue role of Wolverine in future X-men movies


                
