After countless delays and due to my stupidly swollen watchlist I finally got round to seeing Logan which at time of writing currently sits at #155 on IMDb's Top 250 list.Though never really a fan of the X-Men movies due to the lack of consistency and shifting timelines I've always loved Hugh Jackman as Wolverine. The man has taken the character and made it is own as the likes of Robert Englund did with Freddy and for this reason I hope we don't see Wolverine again as a recast would be a travesty.Due to the high rating, rumours of the film & Jackman claiming this was his last film as Wolverine I went in with very high expectations and truth be told they simply weren't met.Don't get me wrong Logan is a good movie, Jackman is great, Keen is surprisingly competent and the movie flows nicely but it all felt very familiar and rather anti-climatic.Wolverine has become of the most iconic movie characters of the last few decades so if this was destined to be his last film we truly needed something special and I don't believe this comes under that category.Even with fantastic actors like Patrick Stewart, Richard E Grant & Stephen Merchant the movie never came close to reaching its potential and left me more than slightly let down.The ending, arguably the worst part of the film. No spoilers to be found here just wads of disappointment.After 9 films as Wolverine I salute Hugh Jackman for literally becoming a character, all the respect in the world. One does have to wonder if he'd have had as much success if he'd worn the proper Wolverine yellow spandex though!


                
In 2029, mutants have been extinct and Logan (Hugh Jackman) works as a limousine chauffeur in Texas near the border with Mexico. Logan lives in an abandoned plant with the mutant Caliban (Stephen Merchant), who was a tracker, and they take care of the senile Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart), who does not have control of his telepathic ability and needs to use drugs to stay calm. One day, Logan is attending a funeral and a woman called Gabriela (Elizabeth Rodriguez) call him Wolverine but he does not give attention to her. Soon the bounty hunter Donald Pierce (Boyd Holbrook) meets Logan and asks to help him to find an eleven year-old girl called Laura (Dafne Keen) that is with Gabriela. Logan is contacted again by Gabriela and she asks Logan to drive Laura and her to a place called Eden in North Dakota and she offers to pay for his service. The reluctant Logan accepts the job but Gabriela is murdered. He returns to the place where he lives and finds Laura there with Professor Xavier and Caliban. However Pierce returns with a group and Laura uses abilities similar to Logan to escape with Professor Xavier and Logan, but Caliban is captured by Pierce and his men. While heading to Eden. Logan discovers that Gabriela was a nurse in the Transigen Corporation taking care of children developed with abilities by Dr. Zander Rice (Richard E. Grant). When the Transigen decided to shut down the program and kill the children, Gabriela and the other nurses released them and now Laura intends to join her friends. Will they find the sanctuary?"Logan" is the swan song of Wolverine and Professor Charles Xavier in a dismal, violent and sad film. The plot is totally different from the genre with a dark story and unpleasant hero. The road trip showing two former superheroes protecting a girl with abilities is not original, but the cruel fate of the family that welcomes them in their home is. In the end, "Logan" is a well-made film too somber for a comic book adaptation. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Logan"


                
My Rating: 7.3/10It's something different. just like what i exactly felt on Christopher nolan's The Dark knight Trilogy. on this film it has less action and focus on characters instead. and i liked it, it is on purpose, something like that. this is definitely worth your time if you are looking for what i just said.


                
First of all, I need to say that this film is so over-rated that it fooled me to watch it at my local cinema, instead of watching it online just like the other 99% of the films that I watched. I can not say that it is a waste of time or money to watch it at the cinema, but the film is nott good, it is not bad either, it is just moderate, just another action cliché movie that meets no more than 65% of my total respect. H.J. plays Wolverine as he used us, so perfect I mean. If it wasn't for him, I don't know how it could be. The final X-Men movie is so boring and commercial, with some, I have to agree, good scenes. Good, not memorable, not perfect ! The filming angles are so...ordinary...Not a single scene was shot from a different good angle so that it may stay in my memory or something. It was filmed just like another commercial film... The first half of the film made me think this requires no more than a 6 rate, but the other half was better, in other words, for my point of view, the action and the thrill both started about when they met those farmers and so on. I don't know, it is my opinion, but the end started to be epic, I mean the chase in the woods, just like the first Wolverine film started (I was thinking wow they had a brilliant idea, ending it the same how it started, with Logan running in the forest and fighting some soldiers, but the scene with him being buried by children was very embarrassing for such a hero as Wolverine). Another big issue that may have changed my opinion and could have made this film better was that it has almost no good music in fighting/drama scenes... To end, I can say that Logan is about on the 3th, maybe even on the 4th place on my X-men films list.
Since his debut on screen in 2000's X-Men, grizzled mutant Logan aka Wolverine became a fan favourite, the poster boy for the then budding new series and a career defining role for Australia's very own favourite son Hugh Jackman.A lot has changed since that memorable debut in Bryan Singer's well-liked comic book hit, for Wolverine as a character, most of that revolves around a lot of crumby cameos and forgettable solo adventures but proving once and for all that good things come to those that wait, Jackman and his The Wolverine director James Mangold have decided enough was enough and finally given the many fans of the clawed mutant the film they've been calling out for.Logan, a downright glum and violent affair is very far from the "perfect" film but considering where this character has come from and where it seemed like he was likely to stay, Mangold's film is one worthy of the name and this Western inspired road trip provides a sense of closure when it comes to the Wolverine name, in that we can finally say Jackman did all he could with this creation that gave birth to his enjoyable international career.A film that ends up being slightly too long in the claw, Logan is 130 minutes of dust covered, blood strewn and anti-children's entertainment that leverages Marvel's new found "older" audience targeting that did them so well with Deadpool and their Netflix events, as a now withered and old Logan is trying to live a quiet life as a driver for hire whilst supporting an ailing Professor X only to be thrown headfirst into a violent battle to protect mutant child Laura who acts as a surrogate daughter to the bearded ex-hero.This set-up allows Mangold and Jackman to explore Logan on a deeper level, as the near suicidal man struggles to find meaning behind his sombre existence and Jackman delivers his best turn yet as the character while many fanboys will appreciate the time he gets to spend with Professor X (who I would argue gets too much screen time uttering Logan's name on repeat for the majority) and it's a chance to finally see the famed mutant act out some seriously impressive carnage.The action in Logan is where the film truly shines and from the film's opening minutes you're acutely aware that this is not a film you'll be watching with the younger members of your family.Limbs are lopped, chopped, sliced and diced and Mangold isn't afraid to linger on the killing that sometimes needs to be done and for all those years we've endured rather forgettable Wolverine fight scenes, Logan certainly does more than enough to make up for this.With action a high point of the film, Logan's not so amazing moments come from a story that starts to drag come the final stretches and with a finale that will be far from many people's memories come a few months' time, it feels as though Logan wasn't entirely sure of itself when it came to delivering the goods come the films conclusion.It's nice to see Marvel shy away from "city destruction" and an evil villain that just wants to take over the world but you can't help but feel the earlier beginnings of Logan signposted a far more "epic" final act, not one with a bunch of children running around a forest and a bottle of peptides.A fine final outing for Jackman and his Wolverine to be a part of, Logan is without doubt the best solo Wolverine adventure and easily one of the best X-Men orientated feature films that draws out Jackman's best performance in some time and introduces us to newcomer Dafne Keen, who does a great job in her portrayal of Laura.There's nothing truly ground-breaking here but it's certainly refreshing to see Marvel willing to keep expanding their horizons and deliver different takes on stories and characters that have flooded our cinema screens for nearly two decades and while this overlong trip is lacking a little in the emotional stakes and features a few to many corny circumstances, it's unlikely the images of Logan enacting out his sweet form of justice will be forgotten anytime soon.3 ½ bowls of cornflakes out of 5


                
James Mangold and Hugh Jackman teamed up to make a different Wolverine movie: more serious, inspired by westerns, in which our hero has to deal with mortality and regret, while being on the lam with a girl. That movie was called "The Wolverine". For "Logan" they decided to do something bold and different by... doing exactly the same, while adding nothing to Wolverine's story, except an ending. Okay, this time the girl is a child with special powers (you know from the trailer and the DVD jacket that she is connected to Wolverine; I won't spoil details), which makes the plot go exactly in the same beats as as every adult-with-child-on-the-lam flick, from "Escape to Witch Mountain" and "Firestarter" to "Midnight Special". The villains in their vans and helicopters behave like all those on-the-lam villains who somehow always arrive quickly to wherever the protagonists are, even at times when there's no plausible reason. Innocent people are befriended on the way, and pay a price.But yes, it is well shot, with well directed action, some style, and good performances. Back in the 80s, "X-Men" fans were campaigning for a movie to be made, with Clint Eastwood a fan favorite choice as Wolverine. Thus it is perhaps no surprise that style-wise and plot-wise, "Logan" behaves like if Clint Eastwood had made it, taking inspiration from multiple Eastwood flicks: "Pale Rider", "Unforgiven", "A Perfect World", and even small shades of "Gran Torino" and "Million Dollar Baby". It also references some classic anti-Westerns of the 1950s, going as far as including a "Shane" homage. All of this it pulls off well, but you do feel like you've seen this too many times before."Logan" also pretends to be a "Mad Max"-like dystopian movie, but then it turns out that they're just in the US-Mexico border, and other than the lack of new mutants, the world looks exactly like the 2010s, despite it being 2029 or so. In fact, there's been no change to every day technology, including cars, cell phones and TVs. Only the villains seem to possess advanced technology, in the shape of cybernetic arms and advanced cloning abilities. The villains (The Reavers) are unimpressive, with the most powerful one being a metaphor of Wolverine's aging issues. And no, Nathaniel Essex is not in this movie, despite how it was promoted. Boyd Holbrook plays Pierce as a cunning dangerous redneck, somewhat of a cross between Gary Oldman and Woody Harrelson, but less strong.The story does not do us any service. Aside from the standard plot themes for this sub-genre of 'grumpy dying hero reluctantly takes on a child and goes on the lam', there's little added to the story. We learn of a grim fate of a half-dozen unnamed X-Men, but have no clue what happened to the dozens of other characters. We are left wondering how Wolverine suddenly started aging rapidly, with no good explanation given, or to how/when he retreated to a menial existence. We also wonder how Professor X turned into a babbling fool, other than dementia at age 90. Jackman and Stewart turn in great performances, even if Stewart's character bares only little resemblance to his prior incarnations. Perhaps you can justify it with how dementia changes some great people.What is different from the usual "X-Men" movies is the violent gore and the cursing. It shocks at first, then feels repetitive/gratuitous or over-the-top. I will say that the fight scenes are more effective, and overall in "Logan" the violence straddles a thin line between action and terror.Saving the film overall is the good chemistry between the leads, the acting, and the fact that you are watching Wolverine in action on the big screen.


                
Wolverine finally gets his R-rating, and it's a double edged sword. The bright side is that the berserker rage really means something (straight up hack-n-slash, baby). The unpleasant side to this is that there's no shortage of punishment in this movie and that's no more evident than in the lowly states of Logan and Charles Xavier (putting aside the ending, it's heartbreaking to see Patrick Stewart wasting away like this): this world has taken an unbelievable toll on both.It's a painful movie, hitting on everything from death to (fragile) hope to even child abuse; and pretty much everything you'd want in an old-man Logan tale.But my god, is it bleak.7/10


                
I usually can't stand modern superhero films, the only exception being parts of Nolan's Batman series. But the mood of the first half of "Logan" is quite reminiscent of Nolan's work, as it brings a realism and humanity to these familiar, fantastic characters. There's something fascinating about an old, broken down Wolverine limping around half-drunk. Maybe I'm strange, but I almost wish the entire movie was just like the beginning: documenting the uninspiring life of washed up superheros. However, they just couldn't help themselves and the film's final act devolves into the typical kind of nonsense I've come to expect from Marvel movies. It almost seems like a different film at the end from the one that started.I can't help but feel this was a missed opportunity to make a true statement and break the mould of superhero movies (a rare thing indeed in today's world of movies by corporate committee). While "Logan" is entertaining and certainly worth watching, I was reminded of the 2016 film "Midnight Special," which also features a strange young child on the run, and perhaps does a better job of it.


                
The most downbeat of all the XMen movies but a good effort. From the beginning it is apparent Wolverine is not well, and Prof Xavier is fading. The glory days of the mutants are long gone, as are most of the mutants. It falls on Wolverine to save a kid, a mutant created by humans.Hugh Jackman is superb, as is Patrick Stewart. The little girl who plays the young mutant does a great job too. The film is violent, graphically so. This movie is to the XMen franchise what 'MacCabe&Mrs Miller' was to the Western - a deconstruction of the genre.One of the better XMen films certainly. Worth watching.


                
Logan is one of the warmest superhero movies I have seen. James Mangold, who is known for extracting some really heartwarming movies like CopLand (Sylvestor Stallone's finest performance), Girl,Interrupted (Angelina Jolie won an Oscar) & Walk The Line (Joaquin Phoenix and Reese Witherspoon give outstanding performances) and also thrillers like Identity (mind boggling thriller), 3:10 to Yuma (remake of a classic western) & Knight and Day (Tom Cruise all the way), makes a movie that possesses both these qualities in equal proportion. It seems that the 'blue potion' helps unleash the Wolverine out of Logan giving us one of the most dynamic characters in the Marvel series.Logan is about this junkie cab driver whose past does not seem to let him go. The movie LOGAN shows us how sometimes even a super hero has to deal with his inner demon. The movie revolves around the impeccable character Wolverine and his undefined love for Professor X and the new mutant Laura (Dafne Keen). The chemistry between Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart is to die for making this superhero franchise a more human touch.  The movie in many parts is inspired by one of the classiest Western movie "SHANE" (A highly recommended movie by Chapter 8). Much like Shane, this movie also defines the untold duties of a man and his quest to differentiate between right and righteous. The new mutant played by Dafne Keen has risen hopes for all the fans and to look forward for the next X-Men movie.Hugh Jackman has really molded the character of Wolverine as per his convenience and it is difficult to see any other actor play this 'lone wolf'. The story focuses more on the next generation mutants who look out for Logan as the guiding force. The action sequences are spot on, and it is the claws that bring out the real wolf in Wolverine. The best part was the director's little references to X-Men comics and when the cross becomes the 'X' symbolizing X-Men at the end of the story.


                
Halfway in you'd seen everything they were going to continue to offer. Then the stakes dried up. The ending became inevitable and the narrative took on an insipid faux dramatic slope of boredom and monosyllabic communication. Again, the first half of the film offered a satisfyingly squalid departure, but it ran out of steam, I resorted to a tried and tested type. At a push, a 7 because it dared to go (R), and it dared to show that everything decays.


                
A sharp screenplay, and the film itself is very much unlike any other X-Men film. The third act isn't on par with the rest, but this is a nice acquaintance for sure.Plus, it features the most badass kid ever.


                
IMDb of course will still be here. In fact, in previous reviews I have suggested that by then the IMDb database which by then will be many times the size it is now, will be available for implant in newborns. At a tiny extra cost of course, That same year Amazon (still here of course) will offer a "nostalgia collection" of superhero films from our current age. The price of the collection with include several sessions with a "mood stabilization" counselor because vendors of the future will of course be aware that in the first two decades of the current current century, just before the Times of Turbulence, western audiences will in the throes of a depression so dark and so deep it did not even have a name. But the evidence of it was everywhere, in pop culture, in the news, in the political commentaries, and especially in the zombie and superhero films.Where every successive released tried to out-so its predecessor in terms of its own dismal view of mankind and the future of life on the planet.And this kind reader is the best review I can do of this movie at this time.The original X-Men in 2000 was a thing of beauty. It is the only movie I have ever ordered a VHS version of -- which implies that it is the only movie I have ever wasted money on, for obsolete media.Every successor to that film has become darker and darker.Must be an audience for all this because they keep cranking them out? All I know for sure is that, whoever that audience is, it does not include me.


                
This is not strictly a superhero's movie. It's more a drama in the Sydney Lumet's Running on empty tradition mixed with a road movie (if you don't consider Running on empty a road movie itself). Obviously there are characters with superpowers or enhanced skills, cyborgs, adamantium claws and telepathic stuff but the action scenes just cover less than a third of the whole movie. Maybe is a more mature movie amid its genre than usual but I felt that it lacks a lot of entertainment. At least the kind of fun I expect from a superhero movie. I recognize the risk that the authors have assumed with this kind of story but I don't find it too original. I didn't like a lot the previous Mangold's Wolverine movie and I disliked Origins but to rank all three from best to worst; 1 The Wolverine, 2 Logan, 3 Origins. I think that they have missed a great opportunity with a really great character. I would have enjoyed much more a Bryan Synger's X Men movie style (but discarding Apocalypse) So Long Hugh Jackman's Wolverine


                
Plot; In the future, the man once known as Wolverine is tasked with getting a young mutant girl with powers like his own to safety.Abandoning the "Go big or go home" style mass destruction of the modern comic book movie, Logan instead strips away many of the genre's accouterments and keeps its scale on the small side. In both tone and aesthetic, it typically plays much more like a Western than "Superhero movie".Much has been made of its R-rating--a rarity in a genre that aims for mass appeal and merchandising--and for good reason. It's not just a few f-bombs and a little gore tossed in as window dressing. Though it's a little excessive at times, like a kid who's just turned 21 and overindulges because the shackles are now off, it's mostly used to good effect.  Hugh Jackman is Logan/Wolverine, and God help whoever eventually takes over the role (either in a reboot or a retcon or whatever is going on in the increasingly convoluted X-Men saga), and he's never been better than he is here. In fact, I wouldn't be a bit surprised to see his named bandied about come awards season. That also goes for Patrick Stewart, who is every bit Jackman's equal as the painfully frail Dr. Xavier.Logan goes on for a bit too long, and I wasn't completely satisfied with some of the choices made in its third act, but it's a well made, flawlessly acted and refreshingly personal film that proves there's more to this genre than costumes and leveling cities.
Yeah, it was okay. I mean the film isn't necessarily a bad film but I would be lying to you if I said it was a masterpiece. The people calling this a masterpiece or "the greatest superhero film of all-time" are just buying into the marketing hype. The film is good however it does drag a lot. The acting is top notch all the way around and the story is very smart but the director tries too hard to make the film feel like a western when it should feel like an epic last adventure. The movie starts out great but slowly loses steam after the Las Vagus scene. But whatever, at least the film doesn't su@k. It was just over-hyped.
I had high hopes going into this movie, and while I wasn't totally disappointed I must brand it an overrated movie. Maybe this is new territory for superhero movies, but it's hardly new territory for movies in general. As someone who's not primarily a superhero fan, I like the X-Men superhero world better than most other superhero movies. The stories are much more engaging because the X-Men are treated like a minority group rather than protectors of humanity. Also the plots are character driven in a really good way, and that made me have good expectations for Logan. This is the first Wolverine movie I've seen, so maybe I shouldn't have expected it to be like the other X-Men movies. Logan is definitely the superhero that most deserves this sort of grittier story, but I think they pushed it a little too much in the wrong ways. The blood and gore was a little bit much, although it was good that the action sequences actually had people dying in them. The body count in this movie makes up a little bit for the lack of deaths caused by other superhero/super villain fights. But it did get to be a bit much. The excessive amount of death in the earlier half of the movie made it less shocking or powerful when Xavier, Caliban, and even Logan himself died. There was maybe more strong language than there needed to be. It wasn't totally excessive, but having Professor X start dropping F-bombs felt weird after seeing him as so level headed for so many movies. Maybe that was the intent.There was a decent theme with Logan trying to keep Laura from being exploited and used as a weapon like he was. The theme with Logan hoping for a more normal and simple life was not handled as proficiently in my opinion. I guess it just never connected enough to the plot for it to matter. I think the reason that the themes were lacking was because there were not enough active choices from Logan or really any other character. The plot was motivated by Logan, Charles, and Laura running away from Pierce and his men, which didn't leave a lot of room for the characters to make active decisions. Yes, there are a couple, but in a movie that seems to be centered around the character of Logan more than anything else, there should have been more focus on his arc.I also noticed that the action choreography and special effects weren't that good for this kind of movie. That's not exactly a good thing, but at least somebody felt like it was okay to save money and have Laura's jumps look a little fake. There was also practically nothing in the set design to suggest that the movie took place in the future. This is definitely an area where Logan sets itself apart from the effects-heavy comic book adaptations. We still get plenty of action, but it is a brutal kind of action rather than the fantastical supernatural sequences that superhero movies typically feature. Maybe that is what people are talking about when they say that it "transcends the genre".I won't say that you shouldn't watch this. Comic book fans will probably see it anyway, but for those who are speculating over the hype I'll say this: it's not bad, but it's really nothing special. Overall Rating: 7.5/10.
This is the best film of the X-Men series and a great end for the Wolverine played by Hugh Jackman. Things like the gore, profanity, Comic Book Inclusion/Reference were all very appreciated, backed up with the thrilling action and surprisingly emotional tone of the film only improved the experience. It felt like the film went on quite a while, however I found I never became disinterested or unsatisfying, not to mention the death of Professor X was an amazingly done scene.Some of the issues I had with the film was the horrible soundtrack, a very forgettable villain, the way it felt like they were setting up a new set of films in a series that has passed it's sell-by date, how the other children were not hunted in a similar fashion, the lack of a good explanation for the death of incredibly powerful mutants such as Magneto and Pheonix, the somewhat anti-climactic death of Wolverine, plot hole in the death of X-24 (His brain is capable of healing) and the fact it is part of the already confusing story line that is the X-Men films.It may seem like there's more negatives than positives here, but the pros outweigh the cons and I highly recommend seeing this film if you're a fan of the X-Men films, you will enjoy it.
'Logan' continues the darkening trend in 'super-hero' movies, and being rated "R", was allowed to be gruesome in addition to being grim and dark. The plot is pretty thin: essentially 'Logan' is a 'bonding-during-a-road-trip' movie back-dropped by the X-Men mythos. The storyline allows Hugh Jackson and Patrick Stewart to showcase their acting abilities (a big step up for both from the 2D comic book characters they played in other entries in the franchise). There are a number of plot holes and inconsistencies, but that's nothing new for the genre and, all in all, the story is interesting and (spoilers hinted at) its position in the overall X-man/Wolverine story-arc allows outcomes not possible in earlier chapters. Probably as close to that oxymoron "an adult-superhero movie" as I've seen (other than the much superior "The Dark Knight"). A bit slow at times but generally watchable: not as great as some reviewers gush but a lot better than many of the entries in the Marvel (or DC) film-verse


                
Take out fighting and killing - slaughtering and you get a pretty descent drama. I was actually very surprised that the movie had a story frame. Of course it is a fictional movie but has much more real elements that makes in more believable, much more grown up and mature. The Logan character was deeper, more life like and the whole story has some neat details which makes it a good movie. Of course Patrick Stewart was very good. The movie itself is very well directed and has plenty things going on and it leaves you with a feeling that movie is very long. Which it actually is with over 2h and 10m long. There could have been less fighting, but the director probably had to follow guidelines to make it more action like. Besides X-Men: First class which was great and X-Men: Days of Future Past which fell somehow behind the first one, Logan is the only X-men movie I like. All others were mostly story-less and dumb and childish.


                
LOGAN is a fitting follow-up to Hugh Jackman's Wolverine series, directed by the returning James Mangold with a difference: this isn't your usual 12-rated superhero film but rather a gritty, adult movie full of profanity and bloodshed. Finally we get to see what Jackman's claws can properly do, and the film's regular violent action sequences are pure spectacle. The story is set decades in the future and sees an old-man Wolverine going on a road trip with a senile Charles Xavier and a mysterious young girl in tow.It's a dark story indeed, one that climaxes in a fitting way, and it's entirely refreshing to have adult content for a change. The film's biggest problem is that it goes on about half an hour too long and slows down in between the action, but it's not enough to spoil a fine viewing experience. The action is lavish and large scale, and the good cast features stand-out turns from Stephen Merchant and Richard E. Grant. The FX are up to the job, as is Jackman, who delivers a complex performance of great depth, one of the best of his entire career.
Logan was a good time and definitely worth the price of a ticket to see it. Keen's character is fantastic, and both Jackman and Stewart were great while their characters weren't as fleshed out. The western tone gave the movie a distinct feeling, unlike any other superhero film, but gets boring in the lack of set pieces. The finale takes chances that are unexpected from these types of production companies, and really brings out a lot of emotions that one might not expect to feel when walking into this movie. In the end I decided to give Logan a "Good" on theVade Review Bar or a 7 out of 10. Although it's a little higher than I wanted to give it, this is one of those movies that I feel will age better with time, ironically the opposite of Logan's character in Logan.Read more at theVade.


                
Hugh Jackman has played Wolverine for nearly 20 years now. He has promised that it's his last, and before hanging up the claws it's very evident he wants to go out on a high note. He has mastered the role by now and does it true justice in this third and best entry in the Wolverine franchise. Everything seemed perfect by the end of Days of Future Past, the time-line corrected its self and resurrected all of the fan favourites from the first three movies that proceeded the events. Fast forward six years after the that film, it's now 2029. He is nearly 200 years old, he's a shadow of his former self, he's struggling to heal, drinks and curses a lot. He makes a living as a chauffeur to pay for his booze and medicine to prevent Xavier's frequent deadly seizures. He is hiding away in a desert outpost near the Mexican border, joined by mutant Caliban who is referred to as an albino by one character. They both look after Charles who is battling dementia. Without spoiling anything else, I'm going to stop blabbing on.Logan isn't your typical superhero movie, inspired by the Mark Miller/Steve McNiven comic, it takes the sometimes formulaic and tiresome genre in many new directions. Tonally it feels like a western more than anything else with hints of horror and sci-fi elements. This is director James Mangold's second attempt at the hero and he is clearly given more creative reign of the movie than the 2013 outing of the famous character (which wasn't too bad, certainly better than the 2009 film). Oddly though, Wolverine works as a future-set western and the director isn't shy of making a good western (Copland and 3:10 to Yuma being fine examples) he delivers in spades with this. There's no spandex to be seen here, no build up to other films, no outlandish super-villains and no macguffins in the form of a stones. Instead it's a striped back, gritty character piece, that takes its time with its premise and doesn't throw everything in your face at once. It doesn't hold back on the violence and when it's brutal, it really is brutal, no cartoonish nonsense. There's More blood, guts and bad language in this than the entire X-Men franchise combined. It doesn't feel like it was spliced together in the editing room, like many movies such as The Expendables 2 and Die Hard 4. It's very obvious that it was shot as a 15 rated film. It feels natural and fits the story well, the film just wouldn't work with a 12 rated certificate. This film could have been very different if not for last year's Deadpool which arguably raised the bar for comic book movies aimed at adults. That movie proved producers wrong bringing in over 800 million at the worldwide box office. This film will probably make more as audiences are getting a craving for violent action movies. Cinematographer John Mathieson (Gladiator, X-Men First Class) gives the film that unique look. Shot in anamorphic, it really does give the film that western look the director was going for. Each shot looks like the graphic novel coming to life with establishing shots, shots of Logan drinking in a rain drenched graveyard etc. The action sequences are filmed very well with no shaky cam nonsense or quick cuts. Composer Marco Beltrami also deserves recognition here too with his brooding, atmospheric score. His third collaboration with Mangold, this one is easily his best as it isn't your typical fantastical comic book movie score. It's very noticeable that everyone is on their A-game here to make this the best possible movie they can.However there is some nitpicks, only minor. For instance Boyd Holbrook's cyborg arm villain isn't given much to do other than deliver monologues and give orders to his team. The last act does raise a lot of questions which make you scratch your your head, However it is a fitting finale for the claw wielding character and a lot better than the dreaded Silver Samurai ending in the last Wolverine film.Verdict It certainly wouldn't be surprising if Hugh and co. get some awards recognition next year, especially Patrick Stewart who gives an emotional final performance as Xavier. By far the best stand-alone Wolverine movie and easily one of the best comic book movies in recent memory.


                
FULL SPOILERSThis movie is just a short step from good to great. It is crippled by a disappointing finale for the iconic character.One of the most attractive qualities of the Wolverine is that he can destroy an army on his own, without any help, because he is the ultimate badass. And while this quality was addressed throughout the X-Men franchise, it is disappointing to see the final fight of his life, literally the final action scene in this movie, to show him as a barely standing piece of meat who can't win without some kids help. By just literally cutting the scene IN the Eden out of the film and not introducing other mutant kids to the final fight, the movie could have had more meaning, be more like an actual western and paid a fair farewell to the character. Just imagine how much more impactful the movie would have been if after the scene where X23 takes the wheel and drives to Eden, instead of reuniting with her friend the forest action scene happens from the end of the movie (which is just 8 miles from Eden. Wolverine and X23 fight off everybody without any other mutant kids, focusing on Wolverine kicking butt. Logan dies, she (alone) buries him and then, with the camera blurring, she goes to Eden, that, it turns out, actually exists.The End.That would have provided a much needed final showdown for the film and the character and fully pay respect to final appearance of Hugh's wolverine. Otherwise, this is a sad disappointment with a good foundation.PS: Also the villains, who felt promising at the start, were not fully developed and the X-24 was kind of cheesy/ cheap.
When the author made it possible to create mutant people, he ruined the story (they could create more & never ends up).Fight scenes are great & fulfill our passion to watch Logan fights for the last time (end of the series).Logan's character is mysterious ,ununderstandable (hugh succeeded to impersonate it).The music is ordinary, the acting is good.The sequence of action scenes followed by very slow ones with relaxing music every time (makes me lose the state of nervous i should have).The kid becomes bloody during fights, then she calms down as if nothing just happened (which is not common with kids).The movie should have been more painful, to feel how much Logan suffers, which leads to the must of relief.Last scene could have been better with a flash back.
