In an attempt to enhance his own reputation, General Mireau (George MacReady) orders his troops to advance and seize the heavily fortified `Ant Hill' from the German army. Despite realising the hazardous nature of the order, Colonel Dax (Kirk Douglas) reluctantly agrees to lead the charge. As expected the attack goes badly and many French troops lose their lives which results in a large number of men refusing to leave their trenches. General Mireau sees this from his safe position and, refusing to admit that the attack was suicide from the outset, blames the cowardice of those who refused to fight for the devastating outcome of the battle. As a result Mireau demands that three soldiers from the regiment be held accountable and face an immediate court martial followed by death by firing squad. Dax seeks for the French military hierarchy to admit the truth.This dramatic condemnation of the politics-over-people attitude of military forces during World War I is an all too accurate portrayal of how the conflict resulted in one of the largest and most pointless losses of life in all known history. Taking place in the trenches amidst the height of the futile conflict between France and Germany, director Stanley Kubrick (in only his second feature film) seeks to press home a fiercely anti-war statement backed up by actual historical facts rather than the typical embellishment that can be found in more modern war films. While the story itself is somewhat fanciful, the portrayal of the morally corrupt military leaders that sent hundreds of thousands of men to their deaths for no more reason than to satisfy their own expanded egos and enhance their perfidious reputations is, unfortunately, all too accurate and a powerful indictment of not just the French army, but all those who participated in one of the most bloody conflicts in human history. What makes the film so stinging in its approach is the flat out lies told by protagonist Mireau, who claims that one man's life is worth more to him than a reputation, yet when presented with the opportunity for political acclaim and honours is all too willing to send troops to battle when freely admitting that four thousand will probably perish in no man's land. A quick glance through history proves such on-screen bald faced lies to be inherently and tragically true off-screen, even in relation to Britain's very own Field Marshall Hague. The French government found the representation of their military too close to fact and banned <U+0091>Paths of Glory', eventually lifting the ban in 1970.The film does not stand out in mere message alone. For those familiar with Kubrick's later work such as <U+0091>2001: A Space Odyssey' (1968), <U+0091>A Clockwork Orange' (1971) and <U+0091>Full Metal Jacket' (1987) the director's soon-to-be trademarks can easily be spotted. As with many Kubrick films there is a remarkable ability to portray to the viewer what is not seen on the screen. The full carnage of the war is displayed in a darkly amusing, yet chilling scene where one soldier questions another on whether he is scared of death or merely getting hurt. As this precedes the actual battle scenes by a matter of minutes the viewer becomes rapidly acquainted with the carnage, fear and suffering these men faced despite a distinct lack of on-screen bloodshed. One could argue that the short, virtually bloodless battle scene in <U+0091>Paths of Glory' is even more powerful than the bloody, disturbing and prolonged beach scenes from <U+0091>Saving Private Ryan' (1998). Kubrick wonderfully crafts this movie around the composition of the filming rather than relying on any sort of special effects or visual trickery. Throughout the movie, particularly during the battle scenes, the viewer is given a third person perspective of the struggles of men to come to terms with life and death under such harsh conditions. Incredible acting performances from Kirk Douglas, George MacReady and Adolphe Menjou attract the viewer's attention and become the central focus in a war film with scarce amounts of action. Kubrick condemns the politics of war through the use of the politics that control war.It is very difficult to write about this film and fully do it justice. The pre-Vietnam anti-war sentiment is easily the main focus of the movie and it is through competent acting that the movie is made great. It becomes somewhat irrelevant that the movie is set in WWI as the same message applies to every major war, particularly the following decades Vietnam War. It wasn't until Oliver Stone's <U+0091>Platoon' (1986) that viewers were again treated to an historically based condemnation of war that focused less on heroes and more on the way things really were in battle. Wisely, the movie opens with a narrated epilogue which informs the viewer of the absurdity of WWI and then ends with a melodramatic and almost tear-inspiring scene which, although not in place when compared to the sombre and melancholy feel of the previous eighty minutes, ends the film in such a way that the film itself must be contemplated. <U+0091>Paths of Glory' is easily one of the most powerful films of all time and a pejorative anti-war statement where the only real failing is the short length of the movie and occasional poor performances from the supporting cast. My rating for <U+0091>Paths of Glory' - 7½/10.


                
Plot: During the Great War the Colonel of a French Regiment defends the lives of three of his men, sentenced to be shot after a failed attack, in court.Like most Kubrick films this is a peculiarly inhuman film. I can never escape the conviction that he is more interested in the technical aspects of the film than in the story or the human beings. Nonetheless the novel on which this film is based has enough plot and character to sustain the film.Probably the most interesting aspect of this film is that it was made before the 1960s reduced the First World War to a parody, best exemplified in "Oh! What a Lovely War". So whilst there is an evil château general it is also made clear that he is no coward or shirker. Instead his most noticeable feature is a battle scar and he spends some time in the trenches. Similarly the punishment is not entirely undeserved. One company did refuse to attack, albeit because of the cowardice of its commander. This adds a realism and a moral complexity often missing from films dealing with similar subjects.The film isn't bad but neither is it great. Like a lot of 1950s war films based on novels it is slightly stiff. There are only really two scenes of any greatness. The first is the attack, which is brilliantly, if inaccurately (much talk of a barrage but none is ever shown) portrayed. The second is the final scene, where the French soldiers realise that the song being sung by a captured German woman is the same as one they sing. It's a cliché - we're all the same - but the careful pacing, the magnificent faces and the genuine feeling shown by the extras makes it work.
If you liked All Quiet on the Western Front, you'll love Paths of Glory. Told in the same anti-war tone, Stanley Kubrick's film conveys a stark, bleak atmosphere in his black-and-white footage, Georg Krause's stoic cinematography, and Malcom Arnold's minimalistic score. It follows the planning and potential execution of a suicide mission in World War One. If you can use your suspension of disbelief and accept the fact that no one in the movie has a French accent, you'll be in for a very riveting, well-acted film.Adolphe Menjou and George Macready are big-wigs in the French army, and they plan out a mission for their boys in the trenches that has virtually no likelihood of success. Both men are hard-hearted and treat men in uniform like chess pawns. Emotional and physical wounds are often ignored, but when Kirk Douglas hears of the plan, he doesn't want to go through with it. He actually cares about his soldiers and doesn't want to order them to their death. Keep in mind that this is a war drama, so don't pop this in if you're in the mood for a light afternoon flick. This movie will absolutely get you riled up, and if you're already anti-war, it might become one of your favorites. It had the misfortune to be released the same year as The Bridge on the River Kwai, which swept the Oscars in 1958 and took space in audiences' memories in the years to come. You've probably heard of Paths of Glory, but unless you're a film buff or student, you might not have seen it. If you're up for a very heavy, depressing movie, it's absolutely worth watching.


                
If a movie really sticks with you, that counts for something. If it does, there was something in the movie that made me think and reflect. The problem with Paths of Glory is that I'm not sure what it was...But let me start from the beginning. Paths of Glory comes with a great reputation (and it is always difficult to live up to a hype) and an impressive rating here on IMDb. The movie, a clear anti-war movie, shows the aftermath of an futile attack on a German stronghold by the French army somewhere along the trenches in the first world war. To be clear, this is no war/action movie, it is almost all about what happens after. The general responsible (hoping for yet another promotion) is furious. After trying to have his artillery fire on his own lines (to get them moving), he "settles" to have one from each company put on trial for cowardice (after initially demanding that a hundred be put on trial - and this is a general that takes pride in being "a soldier - one of the men"). The men's colonel, who personally led the attack, protests vehemently and demands to defend the men during the trial. The trial is of course a sham, the outcome decided from the beginning.Futility is a common theme. The futility of the attack - thousands of lives sacrified for nothing, with no hope of success. The futility of the trial and hopelessness of the men - chosen just to make an example. The disdain of the higher officers for the enlisted men (one genereal thinks it unfair to compare the enlisted men dying to the newspapers critique the officers suffers (which he thinks is worse)). The anti-war message is clear. And finally, the ending scene, where the enlisted men leers and howls at a poor captured German girl that is made to perform for them. Is that the message? That everyone, even the common man, kick downwards on those who are weaker? The men start to sing along in the end, a significant change - but what does that mean?To be fair, I wasn't that impressed when the movie ended. But then the thoughts started. What was the point really? Is everything depressing, or was there hope somewhere? And then I realized how expertly Kubrick has manipulated my thoughts and emotions throughout the movie with his choice of scenes and camera positioning. In that regard the movie is a directorial masterpiece. The movie, almost without me noticing, planted seeds of thoughts and questions, but offering no answers.But herein also lies the movies greatest fault. By the same questions that made me think after, built a distance between me and the characters during. There were no real accomplishements, almost no characters to build a relationship with and feel for. I can't say the movie was very entertaining at all. By entertaining I don't mean I have to laugh or wonder at the effects - but I do expect to be engaged by the movie. Be dragged into the movie by the story. I actually wasn't with Paths of Glory, there was that distance.And in the end, the real masterpiece manages to do both. I don't think Paths of Glory quite lives up to it's hype. Or is it that I expected too much out of it because of the hype?
Stanley Kubrick tended to manipulate actor like puppet to serve his camera, that's why I never like his work very much. He had been eager to show off his mise-en-scene ability, which became more and more obsessive in his later films.Early in this over-praised movie, two generals, played by Adolphe Menjou and George Macready, has a conversation about attacking German-occupied Ant Hill. Kubrick makes them walk around in the room without any motivation, just to move the actors so that he can pan his camera to reveal the well-designed set.Later, Kirk Douglas is talking to someone on the staircase of the headquarter, Macready walks up and joins him, then they move higher while carrying on conversation, so the camera can change its angle to pick up other parts of the huge set without cutting. After their dialogue is over, Macready steps down the stairway. (Why he leads Kirk to walk up in the first place?)Not having military background, Kubrick doesn't know soldiers don't talk that way. If a general wants to talk to a colonel, he would simply yell, "Hey, colonel, come over here!" He would never go to a subordinate officer in real life. Moving the actor up and down for no reason seems rather ludicrous.


                
It seems amazing the jump in scope and complexity from Kubrick's previous film "The Killing" and this landmark motion picture. The competency in direction - acting, staging, pacing, editing, and of course the pristine cinematography. It seems it was made by a director with many more years of experience. As many people involved with the project knew, this film would be remembered through time. Based on a real incident, it reflected the change in sentimentality of how soldiers were being used as human waves, where it was acceptable to allow for a certain percent of casualties. This disregard for human life is eloquently displayed with a series of scenes the demonstrate the futility of war. From the miserable trench conditions, to the fighting for mounds of dirt, to the blind military strategy that merely repeats failed attacks, to the absurdity of threatening death as punishment as part of the "rules" of war. Partly what makes this such a timeless statement is the fact it was banned in many countries, because of the possible explosive anti-military sentiments it may have provoked.Sadly, this film was ignored by the Academy Awards, there are many aspects of the film that are excellently executed. Primarily is the lean script. Clocking in at 88 minutes, each exchange by the great cast is sharp and poignant. The intriguing audacity of executing your own soldiers during a war creates meaningful contradictions. A Colonel wants 3 men shot for cowardice, as a representation of each group. Why not kill all the soldiers if they are all accused of cowardice? And what real incentive does it give the other soldiers to go on to a battlefield and be killed or stay in your trench and be killed? These dilemmas are intelligently staged with a crisp pace that successfully develops sympathy from the audience. Part of what makes the casting great is the use of actors that have distinctive characteristics that present more of the human side of facing death.I don't think anyone will deny the artistic freedom of using American actors as French soldiers. Or the fact this 1916 period piece has distinctly modern dialect and frank honesty about religion, military power, and what the definition of true patriotism is. Even better is that these subject matters are cleanly addressed with not one moment feeling like a dry debate. Rarely do these confrontations occur sitting down, the body language and use of space creates a dynamic that feels heavily thought out and rehearsed. The locations are exquisite. Ironically, the locations were filmed in a castle in Germany. All the characters in this film are well drawn and a joy to watch when sparring against each other. Kirk Douglas particularly savours his juicy scenes of disdain and rebellion. George McCready is the antagonist, and speaks with a lofty prima donna delivery that makes him all that more detestable.This film succeeds on all levels, it has great action scenes but has a moral message. It has unpleasant confrontations with death but is still beautiful to look at. The subject matter is serious yet very entertaining. It achieves the classification of a film masterpiece because of the ability of the filmmaker to encapsulate the heart of the story with only a few scenes (the entire film plays out over the course of 2 days) with well honed dialogue and an active camera.


                
"Paths of Glory", Stanley Kubrick's 1957 anti-war film was his first film in the anti-war genre, but not his last. Starring Kirk Douglas as Col. Dax, the commander of a regiment in the French army who fall back on their orders because theirs is an impossible attack. Gen. Paul Mireau (George Macready) is a glory-seeking man who agreed to this attack regardless of the casualties it will cause, and when it all hits the fan, looks for anyone else to be the scapegoats. He and Gen. George Broulard (Adolph Menjou) tell Dax that he must select random men to execute for cowardice, but Dax talks him into only selecting three, and to allow him to defend them. (In civilian life, Dax was the best attorney in France.) All of the events of the film are an exercise in futility, and the entire film's strong anti-war stance is extremely effective.This was one of the very few Kubrick films I had not seen (I think my last one is Spartacus) and I was extremely impressed. As with another early film of his, "The Killing", his intelligence, vision and burgeoning talent are so very apparent. I enjoyed seeing certain Kubrick trademarks in this film, (particularly the tracking shot which follows Douglas through the trenches) and the story really was a compelling one. Apparently he had to fight to get this film made, and found a strong ally in Douglas, who used his star power with Warner Brothers to get the job done. This is certainly a must-see for any Kubrick fan, and a worthwhile film to check out anyway. "Paths of Glory" does not have the wit or belly laughs of "Dr. Strangelove", or even the terror of "Full Metal Jacket", but it is a strong film with a strong story. Simply based upon the first viewing I give it a 7/10.--Shelly


                
"Paths of Glory" talks about war, about what humans do in war, how power has an important part into who survives, who dies, and why, and how unfair, unjust, and horrible war is and how unfair, unjust and horrible a culture of war makes humans.Douglas's Dax and his men are sent on a suicide mission to take an enemy position. They have to retreat as they can't get to their objective, but their superiors are not very happy about it and decide to bring some of the soldiers to a military tribunal, accused of cowardice. If found guilty, the will be killed.The movie offers a not very nice view of power and war, of how the ones that are on parties and eating nice food send the poor to fight and die, as no more and no less than expendable pawns. It shows how Dax and his men are dehumanized by their superiors, and how these superiors behave like spoiled children when things don't go their way. All very patriarchal, with even a dialogue where a superior talks to Dax in these exact terms: a superior is to soldiers as a father to children. Is patriarchy guilty of violence?The acting is OK, a little bit of overacting typical to the era, and a couple of too long sequences. But the story is good, the direction sound and all the actors give their best. If that was not good enough, the script has some stellar moments for Douglas, with very good writing.A good war movie, to remind us that war, what is it good for?And to whom?


                
To see some of the true horrors of war. And the injustice of war


                
As 2014 is the centenary of the beginning of The Great War, many television channels are showing some of classic war films.Paths of Glory deals with the French side of the war and contrasts with All Quiet on the Western Front which dealt from the German perspective.This was the second feature film from director Stanley Kubrick and this might the only film where Kirk Douglas is at his most heroic, the straight up Colonel Dax who realises that his men are being sold down the river.A General promised a promotion ruthlessly orders a tired battalion to charge up a hill and then looks for scapegoats when it fails. He wants to shoot a 100 men for cowardice but this number is whittled down to 3. One of them is chosen by his superior officer because he knows that officer is a drunk, a coward who killed one of his own soldier and so takes the opportunity to get rid off him. Another was drawn by random chance. Colonel Dax defends these men passionately but to no avail because its a kangaroo court.The film has a very effective battle sequence and before it starts you see Douglas walking up the trench with a determined grimace, its Kubrick showing his early promise.After the battle scenes, the film turns into a courtroom film and then it morphs into a film dealing with death as the men are sentenced and await their fate.The film has a raw edge, unlike other Kubrick films its not very long, its well acted with some hiss-able villains such as the dastardly General Mireau but it will also make you angry as the soldiers are used as fodder whose lives are cheap.


                
Paths of Glory was seemingly unsuccessful on initial release. It was also banned by several European countries, France only lifting the ban in the 70's. It was clearly a film which touched a nerve. In the years that followed its release it started to gain its reputation though. By the time of the height of the Vietnam War, the anti-war, anti-authority sentiments of this movie were very much in line with the times and it was embraced fully. Like a few films now considered classics, Paths of Glory was simply out-of-step with its time; as it turned out, it was ahead of its time. Its bitter cynicism and pessimism was hardly the norm for war movies of the 1950's but was certainly in-line with what was to follow in cinema from the late 1960's onwards.Stanley Kubrick was a master film-maker who made classics in several genres but if there was one he returned to more often it was probably the war film. This one is quite a good companion piece to his later Full Metal Jacket with its anti-war theme. Both films of course look at different ways in which war is terrible; in the latter film it is the way it dehumanises but in Paths of Glory the spotlight is on those who direct events in the background. The military elite are depicted as out of touch and detached. They callously set objectives that they know will result in mass deaths, only really interested in their own reputations. The resultant trial and executions are unforgettably senseless and truly encapsulate the madness of war. Kubrick ends the film on an unusual bitter sweet note though, with the final scene with the German girl who is forced to sing for the French soldiers. They are at first rowdy and intimidating but once the girl starts singing they become quiet and tearful. It's a quite unusual scene but one that strikes a chord even if it is not immediately obvious why it has.The film that Paths of Glory most resembled to me was All Quiet on the Western Front (1930), which is generally regarded as the first classic movie of the sound era. Both films deal with World War I and both are American features that focus on foreign soldiers. In All Quiet on the Western Front it's the Germans, in Paths of Glory, the French. I am guessing this allowed the film-makers to make anti-war statements and to criticise those in power who orchestrate it, without appearing unpatriotic to America. Whatever the case, the distance allowed both movies to be very damning of war in general and neither criticises the fighting men portrayed no matter the side they are on. Paths of Glory also shares another thing with that older film in that it has an extremely well shot battle scene with a fluid tracking shot of carnage in No Man's Land with explosion going off everywhere and men advancing and falling. It's visually impressive elsewhere too with a gliding camera in the trenches themselves. You can certainly see Kubrick's visual flair here. While the rhythmical soundtrack of beating drums enhances the tension very well. Kirk Douglas, who also produced the film, is fine in the starring role. You may also recognise one of the condemned men, Joe Turkel, who went on to play the sinister bar man in Kubrick's later film The Shining.
General George Broulard (Adolphe Menjou) of the French General Staff asks his subordinate, General Mireau (George Macready), to send his division on a suicidal mission to take a well-defended German position called the "Anthill". Mireau initially advises against the attack, citing the low probability of success and the danger to his beloved soldiers, but when General Broulard mentions the possibility of a promotion, Mireau quickly convinces himself the attack will succeed.In a sense, this film anticipates "Hamburger Hill", with the military's focus on one impossible task. Though, I don't think this film is historically accurate, and they don't really seem too concerned when they don't make it.The theme seems to be glory over pragmatism, over perhaps glory versus pragmatism. To achieve glory, the soldiers have to accept a mission that will surely lead to their death. From the point of view of the officers (who command but don't fight), glory is an easy choice. But pragmatism, choosing the best option at the moment, is seen as cowardice, despite saving the lives of the men and having them alive to fight another day. In war, who wins this struggle? Kirk Douglas is excellent as Dax, excellent during the trial scene, which I saw as the pivotal part. Along with Douglas, I have to single out Timothy Carey, who made the scene great, and was also excellent in "The Killing". (Carey went on to be one of Hollywood's great character actors, and the man behind "The World's Greatest Sinner".) Last but not least, this film showcases Kubrick's hot wife... it's no surprise that he was attracted to her, and they had many years of marriage... presumably happy.


                
PATHS OF GLORY provides an interesting glimpse into wartime conditions during World War I when trench warfare was the common way to fight the enemy. The story concerns a self-serving French General (George MacReady) who believes that cowardice must be punished by randomly choosing three soldiers to face the firing squad. KIRK DOUGLAS is outstanding as the officer sympathetic to the men's plight who decides to defend them against a Court Martial.The supporting cast is studded with excellent performances. WAYNE MORRIS is especially good in a deeper than usual role for him as the real coward of the company chosen by Douglas to lead the firing squad. And ADOLPHE MENJOU is devious and cunning as the back-stabbing General who lets MacReady know that he too is going to be scrutinized by the authorities for conduct Douglas has made known to Menjou.Gripping war drama full of realistically filmed battle scenes guaranteed to make anyone understand how men become shell-shocked under constant enemy bombardment.The performance of KIRK DOUGLAS is another milestone in his career. Never has he seemed more defiant and courageous than he does here. My only quibble with the film is that its ending is just a bit murky as to intent and could have used a more satisfying wrap-up to the story.


                
Spoilers below.Apparently it was Kubrick who, during production, suggested sparing the lives of the three scapegoats, and Kirk Douglas who angrily vetoed the idea. You can see why in each case.  Neither ending really works.  There's no way of getting the men off that doesn't feel phoney - but how IS it to end? Three times in a row, that's how.First, there's the execution.  Horrific?  Not really: we'd seen it coming, indeed we'd almost seen it HAPPEN, during earlier scenes which had implied it, in the courtroom and the prisoners' cell.Then, there's the scene at the villa in which Dax lashes out at his superiors.  British critic Robin Wood complained that this was just a cheap way of allowing audiences to vicariously "tell off" the bad guys.  I'm loath to admit this, given that the claim was made in a poorly argued, spiteful and often embarrassingly foolish book about Alfred Hitchcock, but on this particular occasion, he has a point.  It's a hollow climax.  The fact that Dax's heatedness is partly due to guilt only makes the moment still less convincing.  Oh well.  Again there's the problem: what WOULD work?  It's hard to say.Finally, there's the coda, with the captured German girl singing for the French troops.  Now THAT'S the real stuff.  Nothing anywhere in the narrative prepares us for or plausibly leads into this scene, at once so delightful and so disturbing; if only Kubrick had been less single-minded, and allowed himself more moments like this earlier, we wouldn't feel so cheated when the film ends abruptly at this point, fading out just as it starts to get fired up.  And indeed, all subsequent Kubrick films would be considerably longer than "Paths of Glory", and contain less padding.  This would be the last occasion on which Kubrick had more technique than he new what to do with.  That technique is already fully formed, in almost every frame from the opening tracking shot to the execution; one doesn't know whether to applaud the technique or lament the lack of overall effect.
A powerful portrait of injustice, and the insanity of military ambition. The poor, scapegoated enlisted men, and General Broulard's assumption that Colonel Dax's motivation is exactly the same as General Mireau's. An interesting technique, wherein the enemy is never seen on-camera. This is a good film, but even though I am a fan of Kubrick, I can't afford this one classic status.


                
