Sensational antiwar treatise based on facts with a relentless and vivid denounce against the military commanding class represented by two senior Generals ( George Macready , Adolphe Menjou ) who order his men a suicidal mission . France 1916 , a upright officer Colonel Dax (Kirk Douglas )must lead his soldiers against difficult enemy positions called the 'Ants Hill' . Them also is the colonel lawyer assigned to defend three ( the privates Timothy Carey , Ralph Meeker , Joe Turkel) of them when the attack is lost against charges of cowardice and submitted to eventual firing squad.This is a thought-provoking and intelligent war drama perfectly acted by strong cast and masterfully directed . Intelligent screenplay based on a Humphrey's Cobb's novel has been well adapted by Stanley Kubrick and Jim Thompson . It depicts a brooding study about futility and insanity of war , making a shattering accusation against the military ruling staff who cares on promotions more than the soldiers . Kirk Douglas is very good as compassionate French Colonel who commands his troops in some spectacular scenes on the trenches . Stunning support cast beautifully performed by notorious secondaries as Emily Meyer as the priest , Wayne Morris as the lieutenant , Richard Anderson as the Major prosecutor , Ralph Meeker , Timothy Carey and Suzanne Christian , Kubrick's wife . Special mention to the two selfish Generals exceptionally performed by George Macready and Adolph Menjou . Excellent cinematography in black and white by George Krause filmed on location in Schleissheim Palace, Munich, and Bavaria Film studios, Geiselgasteig, Grünwald, Bavaria, Germany (studio). The motion picture is wonderfully realized by the maestro Stanley Kubrick and lavishly produced by James B. Harris , his usual producer by that time . This magnificent film along with ¨ All quiet on the Western front ¨ , ¨Westfront 1918 ¨, ¨ Captain Conan ¨ , and ¨King and country¨ result to be the best films about powerful antiwar theme . Time hasn't dimmed its power , or its poignancy, a bit and remains untouchable the critique to the military hypocrisy in an ultra-lucid exposition . Rating : Phenomenal and marvelous film , above average . Essential and indispensable watching .


                
Stanley Kubrick's 'Paths of Glory' is the ultimate anti-war film. Rather than simply showing us the horrors of warfare and declaring that 'war is hell,' this films genuinely fills us with unbridled hate and anger, revealing the sheer folly and uselessness of combat. There are heroes in war, of course <U+0096> namely Colonel Dax (Kirk Douglas) and his brave fighting soldiers <U+0096> but certainly not the generals, who sit back in their comfortable armchairs and send thousands of their men to certain death without a trace of guilt or remorse.In the treacherous front-line trenches of World War One, a regiment of soldiers is ordered on a suicidal mission to seize the German-occupied "Anthill." French General Mireau (George Macready) is at first hesitant about the attack, citing the unacceptably high fatality rate and his duty to his loyal soldiers, but he is very quickly swayed in his convictions when his superior, General George Broulard, (Adolphe Menjou), hints at the possibility of a promotion. And so, led by a doubtful but loyal Colonel Dax (Douglas), the soldiers <U+0096> in perhaps the most realistic war combat scene this side of 'Saving Private Ryan' <U+0096> proceed with the attack, suffering immense losses and ultimately being forced to retreat. Furious about the perceived "cowardice" of his troops, an enraged General Mireau orders his artillery to open fire on his own men, but the artillery commander refuses to obey without a confirmation of written orders.Rather than taking the blame himself for the failed attack, Mireau decides to execute three men to set an example to the soldiers. Corporal Paris (Ralph Meeker) is chosen for execution because his commanding officer has a personal vendetta against him; Private Arnaud (Joe Turkel), one of the most courageous soldiers in his regiment, was chosen randomly; Private Ferol (Timothy Carey) was chosen because he was something of a social outcast. Colonel Lax passionately defends the actions of his men during the court-martial, but, despite the utterly ridiculous cases made against them, all three men are inevitably found guilty of "cowardice in the face of the enemy" and sentenced to death by firing squad.Later, in one of the most suspenseful sequences ever committed to film, accompanied by the slow steady beat of an army drum, the three condemned men are lead to their place of execution, tied to posts and shot down by the weapons of their own army. Any other film from this era would have baulked at the final moment, offering its prisoners a last-minute reprieve, and the swift persecution of every general in charge of the original attack. Kubrick reportedly toyed with this option at one point, but it is to his credit that he stood firm on his daring and controversial ending. Indeed, French authorities considered the film such an offence to their army's honour that it was banned until 1975.
Stanley Kubrick´s anti-war movie didn't catch me the first time I saw it, but this is a movie that has the ability to touch every living soul. This is about people who doesn't take responsibility - they put it on someone else and have no interest of listen or understand. Even if it isn't Kubrick´s most famous movie, or a typical one (is there any typical Kubrick-movie?) it is one of his finest. Highly recommended for anyone. Good battle scenes also I think.Rating: 8 of 10.


                
Spoilers herein.I think this film is miscelebrated. It does not exhibit the chief characteristic that would make Kubrick important. That would only begin with `Lolita,' beginning an adventure in moving narrative into the space under the image.Here, what we have is his mastering of conventional narrative. It is a very good film, with the beginning of the fluid camera he would later develop. But it is not the real Kubrick, he who would help begin the revolution of image grammar not yet realized.Here we have his adventure with studio bosses.
'Paths of Glory' confirms what a great director Stanley Kubrick was early in his career. This and 'The Killing' from a year earlier are just a one-two punch. You can just feel Kubrick sharpening his knives on this one in preparation for 'Dr. Strangelove.' While this is a drama, you can't help but laugh at the complete absurdity of the situations. I kind of doubt (or at least *need* to, anyway) that an officer would be allowed to go as far as he did, but I think Kubrick wasn't necessarily going for a literal lesson here and was instead trying to make a larger statement about the lives of soldiers being in the hands of madmen. At any rate, Kirk Douglas does a wonderful job of portraying quiet, white-hot rage, and I especially liked Ralph Meeker, who reminded me a little bit of a young, goateed Orson Welles.The black and white really stood out as well-I really liked the scenes in the basement of the chateau.If I had to criticize anything about the movie, I suppose the very end with the German girl and the men didn't really work for me. It might have been powerful in another film, but I think it took away from the final showdown between Douglas and Adolphe Menjou. It's a trivial complaint and shouldn't dissuade anyone from seeing this.


                
I think this movie has a myth surrounding it. The myth has grown bigger over the years.I find this film very good, but not as good as the ratings on IMDb. The story is rather simplistic and so are the characters. No doubt about it who is bad and who is good.But that is fine by me. The story grabs you and you feel sorry for the poor soldiers who are used as cannon meat, shown by the scenes on the battlefield, and you hate the generals who think nothing of their men as tin soldiers. I felt really frustrated when the 3 soldiers were on trial. This movie makes you feel with the characters and sucks you into the story. It shows the cruelty and the insanity of war. The same things Kubrick shows in Full Metal Jacket. The way the soldiers end is not happy but the last scenes of the movie give a spark of hope which can be a little bit silly for some viewers, which I understand, but I liked the ending.It is a good court drama, with great acting and I like these kind of films. And because it is about a war where there are too little films about and because it is a classic and the film is made by Kubrick, I too might just give it a little bit too much credit.


                
The beautiful black-and-white cinematography shows off the spectacular battle sequences, which aren't the main focus of this brazenly unconventional war film that refreshingly focuses upon the French within the First World War (a perspective not often portrayed), as the amazing choreography and direction brings to life a long-gone era with vivid ferocity. The bold plot (which seemingly takes a page from the excellent 'The Ox-Bow Incident (1943)' in its latter half) is incredibly impactful thanks to its blatant injustice. 'Paths Of Glory (1957)' has a potently anti-military - or rather, anti-military-establishment - message that's clear but not overbearing, allowing it to rise to the top of its genre with ease. Powerful stuff. 8/10


                
The movie has good writing, directing, acting, and style. First time I see Kirk Douglas, or young Kirk Douglas, and I was pleased with his performance. Maybe this is the oldest trial I have seen in a movie, along 12 angry men, and it was preformed very well. The movies tackles issues with war such as cruel leaders, brutality of war, the army system, and the soldiers hesitation in war, whom you can't really blame because of the horrifying enemy's machinery and weapons firing in-front of them. The movies also shows the loyalty and honesty of some generals that they are ready to defend their soldiers in front of the leaders in trial, and refusing to be a under a system which condemn their soldiers lives just for reputation. It also shows the extent at which some leaders are ready to go to protect their reputation. Also, the grey area that the top leader hide in, not offending or denying the leader, nor protecting him. The before execution atmosphere is well done in the movie. All in all, a very good movie.
Kubrick is a real connoisseur, a genuine masterclass. Just think about the execution level of this movie, with the presence of tension and emotion, how skillfully he shifted the essence of the story-line from the war zone to the trial scene. How gifted and talented Kubrick was in his early days!! The movie has only 85 minutes of running time. But considering the short span of time, the whole movie was quite intense and engaging. The script was excellent, the story-line was brief and concise and the whole casting ensemble was marvelous. The best thing about the movie was, the singing from the German girl at the end sequence. How brilliantly it changed the tone of the whole movie from a War movie to an Anti-War. This is Magic of Kubrick. Hats off!!!


                
Great Movie! I just caught it again on Turner Classic Movies, so I thought I'd check out IMDb and see what I didn't know about it.Well, I didn't know that so many folks would choose to see the French generals as representative of shortcomings in the competence and character of all military leaders, rather than examples of poor leadership in general. Certainly those who work in corporate environments or read a newspaper regularly can attest to the presence of bad, greedy, or selfish leaders in all walks of life. If anything, the example of both Colonel Dax and the steady senior sergeant should serve as evidence that good leaders co-exist with bad ones. Their presence offers us hope that honor and competence may occasionally be recognized and given the authority to make intelligent decisions.Sorry to have strayed so far from the movie. It is probably one of the black and white films that I am most willing to sit through. The cinematography and the acting are both amazing. The battle scene proves that Steven Spielberg's work in the opening scene of "Saving Private Ryan" certainly had a precedent.As to the final scene of Paths of Glory. I've read a lot of comments here misunderstanding that as well. I suppose that is easy to do, if you don't understand soldiers. These men are asked to exist like animals for months on end, in the dirt, in daily fear for their survival. They are reduced to "kill or be killed" and even their enemy is dehumanized in order to make his death less of a moral dilemma. So, of course, when presented with such a beautiful woman, their first reaction is animalistic. Here's the subject of so many dirty jokes and late-night fantasies come before them in the flesh. But then, her singing reconnects these men to their own humanity. They are ashamed of their former actions and of the level to which they have descended. And they are reminded of their mothers, wives, daughters and the homes that they left behind. Their tears stem from shame and homesickness. Colonel Dax exhibits compassion when he instructs the sergeant to allow the men a few minutes more of human experience before causing them to return to the mud, blood and misery of their existence in the trenches.


                
This black and white Stanley Kubrick movie quite isn't one that shows great action scenes of war, it is more about the moral aspect of it and has heart and brain. I can very much recommend it !


                
Wonderful film, however I wish it was longer. The themes could have been explored more deeply. Not merely a war flick, but a look at how war brings out the various aspects of our humanity. Idealism, patriotism, courage, justice, duty and also baseness, lust, dishonesty, greed, and vain ambition.I love the scene at the end where Kirk Douglas is standing outside the tavern. As his men whoop and holler, lusting after the woman on stage, you can see Douglas losing his faith in humanity with every lecherous cheer. Then quietly at first, the woman starts to sing. The men slowly pause one by one, as the simple familiar song brings to them feelings of home, family, childhood, innocence, purity, as only the softness and warmth of a woman could evoke.Then the camera returns to Douglas, and you can see as he hears the men hum along, that a glimmer of hope returns, and he knows there is still humanity in his men, there is still something in all of them worth living and fighting for. One of his men comes to him with news that they are to head back to the front the next day, and the colonel puts on his hat again and resumes his command and returns to his office. There is enough hope to fight another day.
This movie sped by - was it rushed or was I enthralled? Whatever, it captures the politics of war beautifully and it's the fighting man who is expendable. SPOILER Why is Broulard prepared to mount a case with all the ensuing publicity against Mireau? Dax seemed surprised too. Broulard didn't do it out of any sense of guilt or fairness as he makes clear in his final speech to Dax ("the village idiot"). This movie can be compared to Ray's Bitter Victory which I preferred for its non-literal treatment.
I don't mean to beat up on BusterLA regarding the previous critical post ( Not what it used to be)--but I have to disagree with the assertion that "Paths Of Glory" is a dated and too simplistic film. The whole question about how movies hold up over time seems to always be a ripe subject for discussion (and I think misunderstandings). "Paths Of Glory" was released in 1957 and I suppose was slightly ahead of its time--Of course within the next 15 years movies like Catch-22 and M*A*S*H would bring their own anti-war messages -"Paths of Glory" was banned in France until 1975--otherwise I don't think it upset or offended many others at the time. It's a bit more candid than "All Quiet on the Wesern Front" --however that movie was released back in 1930 (do the math). "Paths Of Glory" holds up well not because the theme or particulars are that new or outrageous---but only because it is so well and clearly told (thank you Mr. Kubrick). Please don't confuse clarity for a failure of imagination or creativity.It's a given in this movie that the officers (except for Dax) represent the dark and cynical side -however- they are not morally bankrupt without explanation--they have a logical agenda of tradition and self interest based on the real (and sometimes mistaken) necessities of war. That everything accrues to their personal ambitions is nothing less than a reflection of "the way it was".The condemned soldiers are also not just cardboard cutouts given victim status. One soldier is a "social misfit"---one other assaults a priest the night before the execution and another one struggles to maintain his courage and falters more than once.I am not a big Kirk Douglas fan--however I think he does a fine job here--perhaps a little bit too forcefully heroic--however you will note that there is no attempt to separate him out -- He is- in the end-- just another cog in the machinery of the war---His defiance to the system has real limits.Finally, I guess I will have to defend the final scene of the movie where French soldiers choose not to humiliate a young German woman. I note that some critics think this scene is jarringly out of place or pointless--however I think it is very effective and speaks well to the subject at hand. Look into the soldiers eyes in that last scene --you can see then that they see themselves in that young girl -they understand her situation only too well. The last scene is put there I think to show that humanity is not automatically and by default cruel and ruthless and corrupt all of the time. The soldiers in the final scene choose to exercise mercy-when given the chance -even against the backdrop of a time and place where the execution of three innocent men is really only incidental trivia in the face of hundreds of others dying in the trenches daily.


                
The story in Kubrick's "Paths of Glory" is tense and interesting, with the action and chaos of a bold yet ill-advised attack followed by the drama and fear caused by its repercussions. But if it were only an anti-war film, it would be a bit too pat, aiming at some generally easy targets. Though set in the heat of the action of World War I, the story and characters are vivid enough to suggest some more general themes about human nature.As the man in the middle of it all, Kirk Douglas has plenty of energy, and he handles the various confrontations believably. His character has more depth than the others, and in addition to playing an important role in the events, his reactions also form the lens through which the viewer sees everything else. From the first scene to the last, Colonel Dax is spirited in his responses and acute in his observations.Adolphe Menjou gives a generally effective portrayal of the bureaucratic officer in charge of it all, though sometimes it is hard not to view his character in the same light as the various charming scamps that Menjou played in his less serious movies. George Macready's character is one-dimensional and disreputable, but he plays the role as it was intended. Ralph Meeker has the most presence of the three prisoners.As the story unfolds, some of the characters' decisions are deplorable, but most of them are believable, and not only in a war-time setting. It is possible to see in the characters some parallels to everyday behavior. This is one of the things that sets the movie apart from the many run-of-the-mill anti-war pictures, and it helps "Paths of Glory" go a little beyond its immediate genre.


                
Paths of Glory is one of those films that really makes you hate war and everything that comes with it. It's a great film that perfectly portrays the many horrors that go along with war. But it doesn't just address the bloodiness and violence, it looks at the psychological imbalance that it gives people during an awful period of time. World War I wasn't perhaps as terrible as the second World War, but it still was a gruesome time for several countries.What I think Kubrick nailed the most about this film was the displaying the vast differences between the colonels and generals personalities to the horrific mindsets that the soldiers have going into a battle. Really, the whole plot of the film is quite ridiculous, but this type of stuff very well may have happened. The film captured the utter loudness that battles create, and even leaves out the music when it needs to. I love a good score but I liked that the battles weren't filled with a bombastic score, rather just the sounds of explosions. I didn't know much about the film, so I was shocked at first to find out it was more than just an epic war film. It was more a look at the trials of innocent men and the sort of dehumanization of them. Kubrick does it well in his later films but his approach to Paths of Glory proved to be different. He implements more emotion and sadness to his characters. This is all evident in the famous final scene, which is probably my favorite of the entire film.So yes the film does become more of a courtroom drama than I expected, but it's a different kind of war film that works. It's a film that deals much more with the political side of war than the battles. But in reality both sides of war are equally as devastating. Especially when you have a story as brutal and emotionally draining as Paths of Glory.+Imbalance of psychological viewpoints +Music hits when it needs to+Kubrick's meticulous directing +Emotional 8.0/10


                
A Kubrick movie is always something unique. No matter if his movie got made in the '50's, '60's, '70's, '80's or '90's, it's always something special and also recognizable. His style throughout his movies and also the way of storytelling have been very consistent. It's a real accomplishment for any type of director to make successful and acclaimed movies over many different decades. "Paths of Glory" is one of his earliest movies, or at least it's one of his earliest truly recognized ones. It really shows some guts and confidence that he made this movie the way he did, while he wasn't even an established directing name at the time in Hollywood.It's a bit of a daring and unique movie for its time really, that kicks against the military. It's a war movie without really being a war movie. It's more about humanity and is basically a story that could had been set at any given place at any given time. It actually has a quite simple little story in it, that becomes very effective through its characters and just overall way of storytelling.It's not necessarily a movie about the madness of war but more about the madness of men. In a war its more a character movie than anything else really. So it also really helps the movie that it has such fine actors involved. It has Kirk Douglas in the lead but I enjoyed some of the supporting cast members even better. I particularly enjoyed Adolphe Menjou and Ralph Meeker. Adolphe Menjou was actually an old star from the silent movie era but in this movie he perhaps gives his best performance. Even the acting style in this movie is being quite unique and unusual for its time, like basically all Kubrick movies can be describes as, as well.It's still a large scale looking and feeling movie, despite the fact that it doesn't really feature that many action or battle sequences. It's mostly due to the sets, directing approach and camera-handling. There are some trademark Kubrick looking moments in the movie, such as some long shots, moving camera's and interesting camera-angles. It's not my favorite Kubrick movie and it's also not his best but it's still a more than great early, beautiful and intriguing compelling movie from the master.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Not really an anti-war film but a film showing the callousness and stupidity of military leaders.  The film takes place in France during WWI.  Col. Dax (Kirk Douglas) is ordered by his superior Gen. Mireau (George Macready) to lead his men on a suicide mission to capture a hill the Germans have occupied.  Dax is against it but follows orders.  Things go terribly wrong and three men are (unjustly) courtmartialed for cowardice.  Dax tries his best to save them.Very strong, depressing drama.  Even though its over 40 years old it still shocks you.  Stanley Kubrick's direction is just great especially during the attack sequence and another part near the end.  All the acting is just great--especially Douglas, Macready and Adolphe Menjou.  Script is just fantastic and the movie never strikes a false note...even when you think there might be a (somewhat) happy ending the movie pulls the rug out from under you.  I can't really say I enjoyed the picture...but it makes its point.  The last sequence with the girl singing is really strange--I'm guessing Kubrick added it so the audience wouldn't be TOO depressed!This was a bomb in 1957 (even though critics loved it).  It was too ahead of its time.  It's now regarded as a classic--as it should be.  A definite must-see...just brace yourself.


                
Rated number 50 in the IMDb.com greatest movies of all time , Paths of Glory is not a film that i was particularly familiar with. I'm a fan of Stanley Kubrik and i love Kirk Douglas so it should come as no surprise that i really enjoyed this movie. When a group of soldiers in WW1 refuse to continue with an impossible attack, their superiors decide to make an example of them. I love the look of this film. You can pretty much tell this has Stanley Kubrick's fingerprints all over it. It asks uncomfortable political and social questions and you can't help but be angry at authority which is a thread that runs through a lot of Kubrik's movies. The acting is superb , especially from a super confident Kirk Douglas and like the fact that this does not have a sickly sweet outcome to it which was so common with war films made in the 40's and 50's. It's a film that spits in the face of authority while the common man suffers and i loved it.


                
Stanley Kubrick's "Paths of Glory" wasn't much of a success at the time of its release but it has proved its worth over the years and is today remembered as a classic. The film is set during WWI and revolves around an attempt by French troops to carry out a near-impossible mission handed down to them by their glory-hungry superiors.The cast is a pretty good one but you'd be advised to forget about the fact that these guys are supposed to be French. That being said, Adolphe Menjou & George Macready are convincing as the glory-seeking generals while Kirk Douglas delivers a fine performance in the film's pivotal role. The rest of the cast is acceptable but not really worth noting.Kubrick's direction, even at this early stage in his career, shows a master's touch. The battlefield & trench scenes are particularly well done while Kubrick comes up with memorable visuals throughout the film. Gerald Fried, who was Kubrick's go-to guy for music at the time, contributes a score that deftly supports Kubrick's script and visuals.In the end, while the film's acting and technical merits are indeed notable, it is the story that truly makes the film stand out. It defies expectations and incisively examines the supposed glory of war and the price paid for it. I wholeheartedly recommend the film although I think that the current top-50 IMDb rating is a bit generous, particularly when you consider that it is rated above "2001: A Space Odyssey" & "A Clockwork Orange".


                
Here's a significant black and white film from that only a small section of Kubrick's fans discuss. Here's is a movie made five decades ago that film goers might find relevant even to this day. It was not a runaway box office success. It's an anti-war film that has a political relevance for any country that pushes its foot soldiers to fight suicidal battles for the glory of politicians and generals. And the most surprising element of the film is that the film loosely describes events that actually transpired in France. Consequently this 1957 film was not shown in France until 1975, and in Spain until 1986.Set in Europe during the First World War, the movie is based on a novel by Henry Cobb. After the book made an impact on film director Stanley Kubrick, the film rights of the book. That act tells you a lot about Kubrick! Cobb's novel describes a historical event that took place because some French generals decided to derive glory for themselves during the war by pushing soldiers in the trenches to attempt a suicidal attack on an enemy position. Once the decision is taken by the generals, the orders are passed down the pecking order, from general to colonel, from colonel to major, from major to corporal. The suicidal strike does take place, some die, and many fall back under the fire from enemy lines.That's only the framework of the story that Kubrick used to build a film that asks inconvenient questions of the viewer. Kubrick and Cobb underline the difference between the generals who are waltzing with their spouses while the poor foot soldier is worried if he will ever see his wife again. Those in power enjoy, while the poor are pawns caught in the games the powerful play to bring glory to themselves.Kubrick's taut screenplay shows interaction between a general and the foot soldiers in the trenches. Three of the soldiers the general chooses to speak to are the very same individuals who are made the scapegoats at the military court and shot to death for no fault of theirs. Are all of us who do not enjoy economic freedom, slaves to a system that is not fair and just? The content of this film somehow anticipates Kubrick's and Kirk Douglas' next project, Spartacus, a film that was not planned at the time Paths of Glory was being made.The film has shades of existential colors. One of the condemned men compares his life and the life of an insect: "See that cockroach? Tomorrow morning, we'll be dead and it'll be alive. It'll have more contact with my wife and child than I will. I'll be nothing, and it'll be alive." At several points in the film, the screenplay underlines the reality that a junior ranking officer can never blow the whistle on a senior officer's misdeeds and get away with it. The ending of the film that Kubrick was toying with was a happy one<U+0097>but the lead actor Kirk Douglas prevailed and made the ending a philosophical and a tragic one. This is perhaps one of the few examples in cinema history when an actor contributed so positively to a film. The film with a happy ending could have made more money but wouldn't have been comparable in merit and strength as this one.The viewers today can approach the film as an intelligent anti-war film in the league of Terrence Mallick's The Thin Red Line. Yet, remove the element of war and what happens in Paths of Glory could happen in an office, in a university, or on the playing field.If we study the film closely the film it is basically a story of men. But the men are always thinking about women. And a woman's (a German, a representative of the army they were fighting) song in a dehumanizing situation transforms the leering soldiers into men recalling their wives, mothers and daughters. The dehumanizing situation of the woman is not far removed from those of the three innocent soldiers killed by a firing squad. The lady who sang the song became Mrs. Kubrick.Philosophically the film asks the viewer whether all the various paths of glory in life lead to the grave. And as the Thomas Gray poem that provided the title of the book suggests: death is a great equalizer. The tragic twist at end of the movie underlines this dark facet of life Many critics have praised the performances in this film. Ralph Meeker and Timothy Carey as two of the condemned men and that fascinating actor, Adolph Menjou and George Macready as the Generals provided sterling performances. (Macready's performance in Tora! Tora! Tora! was probably a notch better) Kirk Douglas had a role that any good actor could have taken advantage of<U+0097>my guess is that had Richard Burton been finally cast in the role, as Kubrick initially planned, the film would have been richer. But then if Douglas was not there, we might have lost the tragic end of the film. (Douglas' finest acting credentials surfaced in my opinion in the little praised 1969 film of Elia Kazan called The Arrangement.) Paths of Glory is a film that never won an Oscar or a major film festival award. Yet, it marked the beginning of a series of great films by Kubrick. To Kirk Douglas' credit he is quoted as saying, way back in 1969 "There's a picture that will always be good, years from now. I don't have to wait 50 years to know that; I know it now" How true!


                
'Paths of glory' is considered by many to be a Kubrick masterpiece, especially by those disenchanted with the later works, and their seeming abandoning of humanism.  'Paths' is a very humanist work, not so much an anti-war film as an anti-authoritarian film.  It is a timely work, an implicit critique of a 1950s, conformist America ruled by a military hero President.  It takes the idea of order - military order as a metonym for social order - and shows how it is paradoxically used to create an Absurdist universe, where a General fires on his own men, where drunken cowards are put in positions of life-determining power, where a man dies not for any logical reason but because he drew lots.  In this way, the film is very much of its cultural time, the post-war world of the existentialists and the Theatre of the Absurd - the closing weeping at a song the soldiers don't understand can be seen as an equivalent to the Nietzchean laugh that closes Sartre's famous short story 'The Wall', a pointless affirmation of a universe where order creates disorder, and man must die, as these men will as they march to the Front in a few moments. 
This philosophical underpinning serves to reinforce the critique of Eisenhower's America, the cowing of men into mindless, slobbering beasts at the mercy of their capricious masters; an anti-Semitic world (something the Jewish Kubrick would have been responsive to); a world where the apparatus of law and culture, those great Enlightenment forces of humanism, join forces with the military to validate and conceal the profound subversion, by authority, of natural justice.  Visually, this is most powerfully expressed in the obscenely beautiful, symmetrical scene, where Saint-Auban, the army and the mansion behind him, reads out the death sentence.
There are many pointers to the later Kubrick here, in particular the exciting use of cavernous interior space to alienate the individual from himself, his environment, his status, his fate, as well as to visualise a kind of mental deterioration or decadence, in this case the mind of the army, the State, the decadent West.  One must admire Kubrick's integrity in a vision of unremitting brutality - he sadistically tantalises us with possibilities of Hollywood-style redemption (the parodic religious symbolism - the mud on the barracks walls like three crosses, the floods of divine light pouring into the cell; the hopes of a deux ex machina when Bax finds about General Mireau's murderous intentions).  With great subtlety, as he would do throughout his career, the camera, supposedly the viewer's guide to the truth, is put in the service of authority, leaving us with the near-impossible task of disentangling what it shows, how it moves (those awesome tracking shots moving at the behest of officers) and what it represents.  The scene where the army try to take the anthill, soldiers dying all over the place, literally unable to move, caught by a a freely, relentlessly mobile camera, like the generals urging them on, is an astonishing case in point. And yet I don't think it's a totally successful Kubrick picture.  There are concessions to audience sensibilities - Mireau is punished - too late, but punished; the singing scene, though ultimately pointless, does affirm a humanity in a world Kubrick has shown has very little.  The caricatures of the Generals are too easy, if very funny, the case is too one-sided: how can we not sympathise with the innocent victims (although, being men, who must die anyway, they are not really innocent).  When Camus wanted to explicate existentialism in 'The Stranger', he chose a murderer.  Later Kubrick films would centre on paedophiles, rapists, criminals - it is how we cope with the moral ambiguities they throw up that true argument lies. 
Dax shows the possibility of integrity and human decency in such an absurd world.  Even here, through, Kubrick's intellect is not static.  Like must Kubrick heroes, Dax's unity, his sense of masculine power and capability, is diminished not by his defeat by  authority (his speech to Broulard means he remains morally powerful and unified for us), but by his Kubrickan split between his feelings as an individual, and his social (in this case, military) role.  When the condemned men walk to their deaths in that amazing scene of death-ritual (like 'Barry Lyndon', super-civilised Western society is underpinned by the most barbaric rites), Colonel Dax's monumental impassivity and his uniform, condemn the men and legitimise their death.  As Ionesco warns 'Arithmetic leads to Philology and Philology leads to Crime'.
PATHS OF GLORY is a typically powerful anti-war movie from director Stanley Kubrick, starring Kirk Douglas in one of his most mature roles. The setting is WW1 and the film follows the French army as they attempt to defend and retaliate against a massive German bombardment. Conflict comes from the machinations of an over-zealous officer who is determined to see success achieved at all costs, no matter the casualties taken along the way. An ensemble of fine performances, taut direction and an intelligent script all combine to make one of the hardest-hitting war movies out there.
It's 1916 France. General Georges Broulard convinces General Mireau to send his men on a suicide mission to attack the fortified Anthill. The men are worn out. General Mireau with glory in his eyes downplays the difficulties to Col. Dax (Kirk Douglas). He even threatens to relieve Dax when he gives less than full enthusiastic support. On a 3-person night patrol, drunken lieutenant Roget kills fellow soldier Lejeune and then falsifies the records despite Corporal Paris (Ralph Meeker). Dax leads the attack the next morning. The first wave is wiped out and the men refuse to continue the attack. Mireau court-marshals a man from each company for cowardice. Roget sends Paris as one of those men. Dax defends them in the kangaroo court.Stanley Kubrick creates one of the classic anti-war movies of all times. Its indictment was biting at the time and finds its glory by the opposition it faced. Kirk Douglas is at his heroic best. The vision is sharp. The story is poignant. The movie finds its target and doesn't let go.


                
Paths of Glory is a World War 1 film with a difference. It's less concerned with the actual trench warfare and more concerned with the sadism found in higher ranking officers. It's clear that Stanley isn't a fan of war, so it may be a little biased, but it is based on a true story and Stanley handles it absolutely beautifully!After the limp Killer's Kiss and entertaining, The Killing, Paths of Glory is Stanley's first truly great film. You can see his directing style really shine here with the fantastic tracking shots and wide angles. If you look at most films from the 50's you'll find that the camera barely moves. Here, the camera is always on the move which is partly why the film still holds up so well today.It's the type of film which makes your blood boil. There is no conventional happy ending, the entire film is on the road to tragedy. There are several brilliant scenes which stand the test of time including the storming of the Ant Hill, which adds a kind of surreal grace to a scene full of ugliness and intensity. Another great scene is the infuriating kangaroo court where Kirk Douglas hopelessly tries to defend the 'cowardly' soldiers.The most memorable moments are probably the final two scenes though. The first one features a long and melodramatic walk to the firing line. There's obvious religious imagery here and it's handled magnificently. The last scene is the famous moment in the bar where Stanley's beautiful wife takes the stage and gets a bunch of rowdy soldiers to hum in unison. It's a weirdly moving moment to end on.I'm not a particular fan of war films, but Paths of Glory has to be one of the best out there. It has a terrific story to tell and it's one which will anger and sadden you. It's superbly acted and directed too. Some say that it's Stanley Kubrick's best film. I'd disagree with that statement, but I can see where these people are coming from. It definitely has to be his most emotional and moving film.


                
