Let me start by saying, I don't understand Japanese and I'm a huge fan of Naruto, Shippuuden and Bleach (of course, all original Japanese versions). One Piece was shown on Cartoon Network when I was 13/14 & I thought it was lame. Now, I see why it was lame, it was 4kids English version which was pretty horrible. Monkey. D. Luffy is the captain of a small group of pirates, famous as the Straw Hat Pirates. He recruits a small and diverse group of people who will be his nakama on the journey. He is more interested in food and nakamas than in gold & money as normal pirate would be. He is a comedian more than a captain, but he rises to the occasion when needed and he's a good role model. He wants to get to One Piece & become the King Of Pirates. He gets Roronoa Zoro on board first. He is a highly skilled swordsman & is known as the pirate hunter Zoro. He uses three katanas & its his ambition to become the best swordsman in the world. Then Nami comes aboard as the skilled navigator. Its her dream to draw the map of the whole world. After that, Usopp the storyteller (i.e he's a great liar) becomes their nakama.Next Sanji becomes their cook. His dream is to prove that All-Blue exists and he's an awesome kicker along with being a highly skilled cook. But, he loses it whenever he sees a beautiful lady. Then comes Chopper, a reindeer (you heard me right!). He becomes their doctor and he's very good at it. Then Nico Robin hops on aboard. Her dream is to find out about the ultimate Poneglyph, Rio Poneglyph. She has a power and a troubled past.This story is about taking the initiative to go for your dreams. Take the awesome adventures with Luffy and his nakama and you'll fall in love with them. There is comedy, spirit, love and an awe-inspiring factor in the anime. Even the animation which feels weird at first grows on you so much that you'll like this kind of animation more than the others.Now, I have just finished seeing the Sky Island episodes where Enel is fighting Luffy (200th episode). I have to say I am hooked to this show. This is definitely a show not for meant for kids. Even if you hate hearing the Japanese language, try seeing it for some episodes and you'll get hooked. I can't recommend this series enough. See it, believe it, enjoy it. This is my all time favourite anime, above Bleach & Naruto. This is miles above those anime. Anyone who has seen all three anime will agree with me!10/10


                
I watch a lot of fan subbed anime and occasionally watch some dubbed anime if there is nothing else good on TV. Well one day while watching Toonami in the UK i stumbled across show called one piece. It wasn't amazingly good, there were obvious problems with the dub, but it was enjoyable none the less. After i'd watched few episodes i started to become curious about the characters and the origins of the story. I did a little bit of research on the web and found out that the version of One Piece i was watching had been butchered from its original format. There were A lot of sources that all said the same thing, that the original One Piece was brilliant and that the dub was nothing in comparison. I liked the show and wanted to see what Uncut One Piece was like. After a little more searching i found some fantastic fansubs and my real One Piece experience started. What can i say, Japanese One Piece is one of the best stories ever told and is by far my favourite show to watch. I look forward everyweek to watching the next episode when the fansub is released. 280 episodes into the series and its still as great as it was when it first started.A poor dub led me to discover my favourite show, and so if nothing else, the dub will let new fans like me discover One Piece. Lets all hope this adventure continues for a long time.


                
On first glance, One Piece is not too different from other Anime series. It has hilarious, roll on the floor from laughing humor and so much action it makes you wonder if the crew ever gets tired.But in its core, One Piece is about something else: it's about nakama. Nakama, a Japanese term generally referring to comrades, receives a completely new feeling in One Piece. Stand by your nakama, believe in them no matter what happens, no matter what anyone does or says about them. Help them in any situation, even if it means putting your own life on the line. With you nakama, you can do anything. And it is this extreme sense of comradry that makes you fall in love with the characters and wish you could be a part of the strange little group.It also teaches how humans are allowed to have flaws; in fact, all people do: seemingly perfect Swordsman and first mate Roronoa Zoro has no sense of direction whatsoever and can easily get himself lost on any one way street, navigator Nami is absolutely crazy for money, cook Sanji loses his mind once he sees a lady.. and the list goes on and on. But despite these flaws, they continue fighting. For each other and with each other. If one crewmember can't do it, somebody else will be right there for support. If you're looking for a funny, action-filled series whose main characters easily grow to your heart and feel like family: go for One Piece. You will not regret it!


                
I don't know what to say...I'm totally in love with One Piece. Years ago, my friend once told me that the top three best anime in the world were Bleach, Naruto and One Piece. Since I have watched Bleach and Naruto, I totally agreed that Bleach and Naruto were the best. But One Piece??? I was very doubtful at that time. Why? Because there's no way an anime that is childishly drawn could be at the same level as Bleach and Naruto. But my friend keep persuading me to watch One Piece and one fateful day, I tried to watch it continuously for one whole day. Oh my God!!! I was completely stunt! This anime is beyond my expectation. What an epic. For me, it was better than Bleach and Naruto. Luffy and the Strawhat Crews have their own unique characters that can be related to most of us in our daily life. The supporting characters and villains also have characteristics that will stuck in you mind for ages. I think that's why One Piece is the best. Most of us 'feel' for each of the characters in many ways...may it be in laughter, agony, suffering and so much more. Kudos to the One Piece's production team especially the amazing creator, Eiichiro Oda; for creating a world that is beyond ordinary but still can amuse ordinary people like me and you.A must see anime before you die...


                
One Piece is an excellent show. It's exceedingly funny and I guarantee that you will laugh. The main characters are so weird and insane that you immediately love them. First there's Monkey D. Luffy, who is this optimistic boy that can stretch his body thanks to a Gum-Gum fruit he ate as a child. He's the captain. Then there's the sarcastic sword master, Roronoa Zolo, who practices santoryu, which means he uses three swords at once. He is the first mate. Nami is the third member to join the crew. She's a thief who hates almost all pirates with a passion, but adores money. She's the navigator. Usopp is the fourth crew member. He's a total scaredy-cat and always tells lies. He's the crew's sharpshooter. The fifth crewman is Sanji, who's a serious ladies' man. He is the cook. And then there's Tony Tony Chopper, who is...a reindeer. He's just a tad shy. He's the crew's doctor. There might be more crew members, but I don't know of any others. They're all really interesting, but the enemies are just absurd. Every time you see a new one you have to stare at it for a minute or so just to figure out whether he's wearing a wig, or if that's REALLY his outfit. The storyline is great and the music makes me smile. Even if you don't obsess over pirates like I do, you will love this show.


                
Well after watching this show for quite a while i noticed one thing. The English dub is horrible and all the scenes of the so called violence are cut out. I actually watched the first five episodes again in Japanese after seeing the English dub and it so much better. Apparently this show has been cut extensively to suit it for all ages witch does not do this show justice i think its quite friendly to children. Take my word for it watch one episode of One Piece on English. And then watch the Japanese version you will see the difference. This show is great and deserve so much more.


                
It tops every other show I've seen. watch the funimation dub though, the 4kids is terrible in comparison. Every character has great chemistry with one another. It has a great action to comedy ratio. There are many twists you never see coming. It takes place during 'the great pirate era' and everybody is searching for the legendary one piece which is rumored to rest at the end of the grand line, the most treacherous sea in the world. It is the best show i believe I've ever seen and I'm not even one for anime. If only they aired the uncut dub on television I guarantee it would have been as big, if not bigger, than dragon ball z. Its not just a show for people who like anime but for everyone. One day it will hopefully be televised.
One Piece, what can I say? It has become a part of my life, wait no, One Piece is my life. It is the most beautiful thing mankind has ever created. All thanks to mastermind Oda. Starting off with facts of it being the highest selling manga and being in the Guinness book of world records, also having an extremely dedicated fan base which no community can ever have. It's simply the greatest story ever conveyed and portrayed in a comical form. As I've seen many movies and TV shows(which includes American TV Shows, Indian cinema.) Read thousands of books, no story has ever enlightened and amazed me as One Piece did, I personally feel it to be on par with Mahabharata, Ramayana & Shakespeare's works. 732 episodes, 819 chapters still looks fresher than ever, without being monotonous, not only it entertains you, it scars you for life. A show so strong, that it changes your life. A show so good you can never stop watching. It's more addictive than any drug in this world. Coming to the characters, Monkey D Luffy, even people say he is typical Shonen material, he is the greatest protagonist a story can possibly have. He goes from dumb & funny to badass & idealistic. He's like a brother I never had. Roronoa Zoro, a lad so influential with his quotations, you start following his mannerisms in real life. With many characters and their unique personalities. I don't want to spoil anything for you, get amazed by the characters by yourself, I'm sure Oda will never disappoint you.Coming to the story, as I've already mentioned, it is the 8th wonder of world. What amazes me the most is, Oda is so legendary that he depicts real life events from this world through his manga. He's also a conspiracy theorist. With psychologists and business strategists watching One Piece, to learn more about leadership, makes it far superior than any anime or TV show or novel or anything.There a lots of things I wanted to say, I'm bipolar, I don't remember anything I've watched, I'm very lazy since I've always been under heavy medication. Watching One Piece makes me happy. It's the best thing that ever happened to me. Just imagine what it takes for a lazy person like me to write a 300 word review. That is how much One Piece moved me.For me the animation of the anime was always consistent and I personally recommend you subbed version, don't even consider the opinions of people who've just watched 30 or 40 episodes or so, or people who are extremely ignorant. One Piece will change your life and I'm pretty sure it will be the best thing that will ever happen to you.Thank you.


                
I have watched a lot of anime, however one piece is one of a kind, after watching all the episodes, I'm finding it really difficult to enjoy any other anime, I wish there is another anime similar to one piece, because I just cannot forget it. The arcs, the characters, feels like I am on a journey with Luffy to find one piece and to become the Pirate King!I have stayed up many a night watching episode after episode of this great anime, addicted to it.Really fantastic,entertaining, hilarious, emotional, thrilling, exciting, super character developments.I would recommend to watch the Japanese subbed version instead of the dubbed. One Piece is quite possible one of the best anime, if not the best anime in animation history!


                
This is simply the best anime TV show or comic out there. In my opinion, it is also better than all non-anime TV shows. I am American, and I do watch almost all the shows produced here except crap like Jersey shore and 90210 and and stuff like that.Do not be scared off by the length of the show, every single chapter or episode is good. It will most likely go on for a few hundred if not one thousand plus chapters. Give this show a try, it will change your life. You will be absorbed by the story and the characters. It will teach you lessons in life, such as chasing your dreams and the value of friendship.AND IT'S FUNNY SO GO WATCH IT RIGHT NOW!


                
One Piece is The Greatest Shonen Anime/Manga of all time.It features a grand adventure full of colourful and developed characters, each with their own unique goals and dreams. The narrative is extremely well-paced and intriguing with great writing and presentation; the Animation and Music are both incredibly top-notch. They give each Arc/Location it's own style of atmosphere which makes the series very innovative. This coincides with the genius storytelling that balances badass action scenes and hilarious comedic moments. One Piece is also a very memorable show with gorgeous imagery and designs. An example of this brilliance is in the backstory for the Punk Hazard Arc where a character with a Fire-type ability battles an Ice-type character for a long time in one location, an island. This results in a contrast of settings and characters because half the island is covered in Ice while the other half is engulfed by Fire, so different variations and ideas are explored in just one Arc!Finally, the series just knows how to have fun and not be overly-dramatic like many other Animes. This in turn, makes the few brilliant dramatic episodes all the more impactful! One Piece is a True Classic.


                
One Piece, what a simple title for a manga. You first read that name and wonder what's it about a bathing suit, a place, your not sure. You then open the pages or watch the first seconds of the anime and learn that the story is really about a world of pirates and that One Piece is actually a treasure that once belonged to Gold Roger (later you learn his real name is Gol D. Roger and that he is connected to something call the Will of D. good stuff) who was considered the Pirate King, the dream of all pirates to be. HE was executed 20 years before the story began and before he died told the world that his treasure was waiting for whoever could find it at the end of the Grand Line. You then come to the story of Monkey D. Luffy (wink wink maybe there is a connection between the two). Luffy is a naive, happy, curious teenager with a body of rubber which he got from eating a devil fruit ( a powerful fruit which gives the eater amazing powers but robs their ability to even swim, drowning them if they even try to swim, you find out there are hundreds out there and each with different abilities) Luffy dreams of being the pirate king and to be better than his mentor Red Hair Shanks one of the most powerful pirates on the sea. Luffy on his adventures meets new and exciting people and his crew gets larger along the way first his first mate and swordsman Roronoa Zoro, the sniper Ussop, the cook Sanji, the navigator and thief Nami, the doctor Tony Tony Chopper, the archaeologist Nico Robin, the shipwright Franky, and the musician Brook. One thing that sets this crew apart from all other pirate crews is not only is there crew much smaller then the others but also that each has their own special dream and are the best at their specific job. As you read the story you find out that each crew member has their own strengths and weaknesses but that they also wouldn't be around if each crew member wasn't their to help, making each person invaluable to the crew. Also you find out that unlike what many people believe Luffy is not your typical pirate he doesn't go from port to port robbing and pillaging the innocent people he actually has helped many people with problems with other pirates and can't see a friend hurt. Whats also interesting is while their are good and bad pirates the World Government which are the leaders of the world, which who are suppose to help the people are also bad and good and that the leaders have a dark secret that you begin to learn about much later. All in all the story is so well done not one arc is wasted, not one character is wasted, even minor characters get their story told and you learn of their dreams. Eiichiro Oda brings so much emotion to this story. You will cry I promise you even the toughest of guys will cry in some arcs. You will laugh there is no doubt about it the crew is just to crazy for you not to laugh. You will cheer for the crew and hiss at the bad guys. There is nothing more I can say about One Piece it is an experience that will touch you and make you rethink mangas. You will soon love One Piece as much as me and thousands if not millions of others do to.
Like the famous slogan, "Eat,Sleep,Rave,Repeat" mine would be "Eat, Sleep, One Piece, Repeat" I watched One Piece for 4 times it still looks as entertaining and beautiful as the first time. It is the most beautiful thing I've ever come across. People party on their birthdays & special occasions,but I watch One Piece cause it makes my day. The title of my review may have been copied from several other statements of other people on One Piece, but it truly comes from I heart. I value One Piece more than I value anything. One Piece is my treasure. It is more than godly to me. The epic story line which revolves around a millennium of mysteries, the greatest fictional characters ever developed by a human makes other adventure stories like LOTR and Game Of Thrones look lesser than a child's play. One Piece is definitely a gift to humanity. One Piece is the pride of anime & manga world. It is the most iconic anime after Dragon Ball. Each and every character, each and every arc, each and every opening, each and every fight, each and every filler is/are entertaining, beautiful, an adrenaline rush and unique. Luffy being a brother and a idealistic personality to all the youngsters, Zoro appealing and attracting attention of youth and never fails a set a trend in the pop culture with his quotations and mannerisms. There are hell lot's of characters which I'd like to talk about, it's better if you watch it yourself.Get ready for a show, which can make you cry, laugh, jump over excitement, hit your TV screen, an excitement which can get you excited even when you remember the moment you've got excited, get in love. An anime which can you scar you and leave a mark on you for your entire life. All in one show" One Piece, the greatest TV show, greatest story ever written in the history of mankind."


                
I look back on the day when I first watched One Piece, from the younger days of Luffy, as the main character, to an amazing journey on the Grand Line with thousands of other memorable characters, and I must say, I never regretted it. Combining the best of a great storyline, stellar cast, slapstick over-the-top humour / comedy, and outstanding themes of love, loyalty, betrayal, greed and much more, this anime series has never failed to enthrall me in all my delightful episode screenings numbering well over 200 episodes now, whether it be on a fine morning, a dreary rainy afternoon or sleepless nights.I can only hope to express what I feel about this great classic of an anime series only so much here. It is up to you to watch this, and enjoy one big roller-coaster ride of emotions that will rock your life for years to come: www.kaizoku-fansubs.com . Please enjoy!! Also check out "Naruto", "Bleach", "Full Metal Alchemist" and "Death Note", not to mention Hayao Miyazaki's anime films, "Spirited Away", "Howl's Moving Castle" and "Princess Mononoke", to name a few. Join me as another anime lover, if you are not yet one. =) Peace out!


                
Is One piece too long? Is it really worth it to watch One piece? YES! YES! YES! One piece is not too long, and you should really watch it! (I mean it has like almost 800 chapters in the Manga, but anyone that loves One piece will tell you that is not enough). Why is it so good? Because it is an awesome, well written and drawn Manga/Anime. Oda, the creator of One piece, is really one of my favorite people in all the world; I have nothing but respect to that man. This anime is about a guy named Luffy who wants to become the Pirate King. He wants to follow the steps of Gol D. Roger, the only man who became the Pirate King, and he wants to discover Gol D. Roger's treasure (ONE PIECE) which is supposed to be the best of the best. That is the main idea of the whole series, a man and his crew sailing to get the treasure. I know it doesn't tell much, but I don't want to make this review that long, and I want you to watch it.You must think I'm childish and immature for liking something like this, and in some way I am. I started watching it when I was in highschool. You have to like fantasy to enjoy it. I am in university right now, and I am more hooked with it than before. The first episodes and the first seasons will tell you nothing about One piece. It is funny, it has sad stories, it has some cool fights, but you probably will see no future in the anime. When you get to the episode 100th episode, you will know a little bit, like 5% of the whole story, when you get to 200th, like 10%. I'm right now in the 780 chapter and I still don't know so many things, and I am dying to know them all. This is the reason why I love it so much. This anime doesn't tell you the story right away. That is the beauty of this anime, that is the soul. Actually, it feels like when you are in love. Like you are dating this girl, a special one, and she makes you suffer and she makes you happy, and she takes you to a whole different world. This anime takes its time so that you can get to know the main characters, thousands of secondary characters, thousands of stories and tales, the many fights, the islands, etc. That is when this anime becomes mature and not so childish, with its heartbreaking stories, inspiring speeches, amazing quotes. It has references of many things, like General Culture, actors, singers, famous people you know nowadays, and classic movies and books. Every story, every character, every island, every thing in One piece has a background. Oda wants to show everything little by little, his preparing you from the very start for the climax of its last episodes. Sometimes you will think some stories and characters are not necessary, but these stories drop you little clues about something that is going to happen. They get you thinking and talking about many crazy theories. You get to see the progress in Luffy's crew, and you cannot do anything but love them. You get to see really evil villains, yet you will also love them. I am not afraid to say that I have cry like a little baby with this anime.I am fan of many other anime, like Dragon Ball, Bleach, Naruto, Death Note, Code Geass, Darker than black, Evangelion, Hellsing, Monster, and so on, yet I will tell you my favorite is this one. I give One piece a 10/10, not only because I personally love it. Also because I think One piece should be recognized. For its artwork, for its originality. Even though it has some things from Dragon Ball, and from other Mangas, it doesn't exist a pirate story like this one. It always has something to offer. If you are a fan, and you are following the Manga and Anime like I am, I know you trust in Oda, you know he will never get you disappointed, and I know I will never stop watching it. (Sorry for my English, I hope I was able to express myself)


                
One of the extraordinary shows of the world.When I started it I didn't realize that this show will have a effect on me.But I was wrong.Guys if you think the show is only about pirates,then you are wrong guys.And also i have a request.Can you increase the number of episodes of the show per year.Because at this rate the show will end after 10 to 15 years only.I know that I am being selfish here,but Guys(the creators of the one piece show and Eiichiro Oda)i think i don't have that much time to live in this world.I think you can understand it guys.Before i pass away i like to see the grand finale of the show guys.But in its core, One Piece is about something else: it's about nakama. Nakama, a Japanese term generally referring to comrades, receives a completely new feeling in One Piece. Stand by your nakama, believe in them no matter what happens, no matter what anyone does or says about them. Help them in any situation, even if it means putting your own life on the line. With you nakama, you can do anything. And it is this extreme sense of comradry that makes you fall in love with the characters and wish you could be a part of the strange little group.


                
Shonen manga is a really biased genre. Not only for people who only see manga as "japanese cartoons", but for people who only like Naruto or hate all shonen too. One Piece, however, is so original and deep that any art critic could look at it as a romance book rather than plain entertainment. The story follows the adventures of Monkey D. Luffy, a 17-year old boy who consumed a mysterious fruit which made his body have rubber properties and his dream of finding a legendary treasure called One Piece, thus becoming the Pirate King. My description sounds dull, because it is really hard to explain even one percent of the complexity of this show. It is about dreams, about promises, about the value of life and about so many things that every new arc becomes a new life experience. Of course, the quantity of episodes may scare people, but after some few arcs, it makes the viewer feel every single message transmitted through the story. The storyline is really surprising, and every new episode can change what you thought to be certain. The details are not spared by the author, and are commonly used in further episodes. This attention to small things make the story progress in a beautiful and quick way. The character roster is rife with complex personalities/back stories, and it is really hard not to love them (with the exception of Donquixote Doflamingo). If you want some good story to laugh and have fun, you may like it. If you want adventures, art and romance, you will love it.
One Piece is epic, epic fun. Everything is big, loud, and exciting, but not without the finer details. The world of One Piece is truly a unique one, and we get to discover just how amazing it is with the awesome Straw Hat crew. Every character in the crew stands out with bold personalities and detailed and interesting back stories. The show has so many facets: amazing fight scenes, adventure, "magic" and mystery, character drama, political and social intrigue, and a wacky, over the top sense of humor. This is one of the few shows out there where I can really say I laughed and I cried. Laughed, and laughed, and laughed.


                
I'd give this anime a huge, whopping 10 if it's rating the Japanese show. The American "kiddy-cartoon" though...can we give half-negatives? -_|| Please? Darn you 4kids. More than 30% of -their- show has been cut and changed. The names, the attitudes, the actions. Entire episodes and arcs have been taken out. Was it worth it to make a show, 4kids, that was NOT INTENDED for the 6-11 yr. old demographic and force it into that category? Haven't you squeezed enough $ out of this wonderful Japanese phenomenon? Yet the Japanese anime... Oh goodness yes. I couldn't rate it enough stars! Comedy/drama/romance, whatever you want it has it, along with a fabulous music score and marvelously innovative characters. There's something for everyone (even an anthro that isn't a let-down like some anthro characters are in anime shows.) I just can't stress enough to people: buy the Japanese DVD's! If you complain that this show is annoying and you can't stand it, more than likely you're watching the hack job that 4kids produced. I'll admit some people just can't stand Oda's odd style of elongating people, and his very unique styled characters no matter what. But you can't say it gets stale fast. I'm up to episode #160+ and it's still going strong...past 260 as far as I know.
The serious is just full proof .. i watch a lot of movies and animations ... but i cant help my self, to always think about one piece in every situation .. the only disadvantage of the series is that ... 95% of the characters don't die ( not the main ones ). the mangaka maybe hates death or something .. especially in the SKY ISLAND ARC ... but aside from that .. u can sense the maturity of the plot as well as the deepness of the Friendship and its values and u can sense that in the Water 7 Arc , with franky and his father .. .to any one who does not like anime start with this one ,, and give it a 5 episodes try and u will see your self reaching 100 in a week .. take it from me


                
I've watched many IMDb Top Rated Movies and TV Shows, but nothing comes close to the thrill of watching One Piece. 
I'm rarely a fan of any movie or show, but One Piece is among the very few I liked and remains the only one that I'm a fan of. There's a reason why One Piece is the best-selling manga of all time.


                
this show stands out from all other anime shows out there.its just awesome.the story the characters the battles everything is just amazing. the protagonist luffy has been made out so well that you can't take your eyes off his activities ,his behavior,and his essence in the show.one thing which is not right is that this show has been going for so long and still there seems no end to it.some arcs have been stretched too long but as a matter of fact the arcs which are just perfect compensate this flaw.would certainly recommend everyone to watch this anime in Japanese as English dubbing is awful,its just a shame as to why they even dubbed such a great show in English.ill rate it perfect score for the feel,the x factor involved and specially the plot which has been held just perfectly.


                
this must be one of the best, actually it's the best anime i have seen ever! This contains spoilers...just letting you know. i'm gonna have a quick summary of it (don't want to go to much into details because all the other comments have plenty of it already). the story is about a boy named luffy who always wanted to be pirate. he has the power of the devil fruit (which he ate by accident) which allows him to stretch him arms and be immune to bullets. when he was finally ready he he leaves home and starts to gather his own pirate crew. In his crew he has Zorro(swordsman), Nami(navigator), Ussopp(liar/sharpshooter), Sanji(cook), and Chopper(doctor). later on in the series the crew will have three other crew member including Robin(archaeologist), Franky(carpenter), and Brook(musician). each one of crew member have their own goals and dreams that they want to achieve. so throughout the series they fights enemies such as the shichibukai and others, and whoever stands in their way in order to achieve. you must probably be thinking that this is just another anime with not a lot of story but you are wrong! this anime has one of the most hooking story and also original at that. the story is gonna make you laugh and make you feel like crying (near episodes 235-236 and also 312). the humor in this anime is also great! they aren't just some random, common jokes that you normally see and the way they present them is great. the fights are incredible too. Especially Ussopps! they are just hilarious! the story is very big one. everything that happens in the past affect what happens later on. for example, you probably are introduced to the whale Laboon near episode 63. what happens in episode 63 will connect into episode somewhere in the 300's. one last thing: do not watch the English dub of this anime because they are just horrible. at one point you see luffy in pain because he was attacked by suction cups! they tried to make it a kids show but i think the kids that dumb to believe that a suction cup can kill you' i mean what can it do? sucks at you! and they also removed all the blood from the show which has a lot to do with fights. it shows the impact of the attacks! and also they tried to put some funny puns in there! the puns are not funny! they should have realized that! i don't any kid will laugh at them.Overall it's a great anime for and kids to watch. With over 375 episodes, i can see why it's a hit in Japan. if you the kind of person who is into action, humor, and something comedy, then this is the show for you.
In an age of adventure, with unexplored seas, constant conflict among and between bandits, pirates, and marines, and a seemingly endless conquest for fame and fortune, 'One Piece' is a roller coaster ride from the get-go. The protagonist of the series, Monkey D. Luffy, is a young, care-free, ambitious adventurer whose life-long ambition is to become The Pirate King. With the help of Roronoa Zoro, the infamous swordsman Pirate Hunter, Nami, the expert navigator, Usopp, the crafty inventor and sharpshooter, and Sanji, the ship's cook, as well as other comrades met along the way, Luffy explores the unexplored and overcomes situations that are seemingly insurmountable.One Piece is an overall fantastic show for a number of reasons. The stories are always interesting, and there really is never a dull moment. Though the majority of the show takes place in the present, there are some episodes every now and then that take place in a character's past that reveal something truly touching about the person. The plot also has a nice balance of conflict with adversaries as well as light-hearted mishaps, whether aboard their ship, 'The Going Merry,' or on a new island with a new town.The music, which you don't always notice, is really fitting for whatever mood the Straw Hat Pirates (as they will infamously be known as) find themselves in, whether they're celebrating in a tavern or in the heat of battle. The opening and closing themes are excellent as well.The animation itself, to use a cliché metaphor, is really an acquired taste. Personally, I think it's fabulous. The detail is extraordinary, the colors are vibrant, and the designs of both the characters and scenery are refreshing.Above all, you'll really fall for the characters. You'll sympathize with them when they're down, and you'll cheer for them in moments of triumph and success. Their interactions with one another are comical as well as touching. They come in many shapes, sizes, and varieties, which is what makes the series so great.Originally a manga in Japan, the comic series became a TV series and was, and still is, a huge hit, and for good reason. The show has come to the U.S., though I would really stress following the original with Japanese dialog with subtitles. Buy it or rent it on DVD, borrow it from a friend, or find some way to get the real deal. The voice actors do a tremendous job and really bring the script to life. There's also a Japanese cultural flavor that is lost when watching this show dubbed.There's never a dull moment in this one-of-a-kind show. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll love every moment of it. One Piece really is a true treasure.
Yup, it's true I've seen over 50 top rated series start to finish (yes, of course that includes Breaking Bad), and i can easily say this is the most enjoyable show of the lot. It's one of the only shows I've never been able to predict. It leads you into thinking the show is of a certain nature, then it goes polar opposite and blows your mind, until you eventually love and root for the characters. Then once your love of the characters is established, it puts them in genuine risk, with some really awesome battle scenes, some are even on par with the best naruto battle scenes (like pein, etc.).It's a great show from the beginning, truthfully is, but if you devote enough genius move points into checking this one out, you won't be able to stop past the arlong arc. The weirdest part of the show is it legitimately, no lie/exaggeration becomes better and better and better as the series goes on. Which is why I rate it a perfect 10/10 because it starts at about a 9.2.You won't be disappointed ;D


                
