I started watching this anime with pretty high expectations after having already watched Death Note and Naruto, which I both loved. Now that I have finally caught up with the latest episodes I feel like I have watched enough to be able to write an objective review on it. Let me start with what I personally found good about the anime. The anime is really casual. By that I mean that it's not difficult to follow and that it's almost always uplifting. I don't find myself getting sad over an event in One piece often . You can just watch it to relax and enjoy your time. The plot is also quite simple. There have been no complex plot twists so far, so even if you don't pay much attention to some episodes you can still follow the storyline without problem. Furthermore, all main characters are unique with their own goals and funny personalities. The interaction between characters and the dialogue are creative and humorous. There is also a wide variety of abilities possessed by characters in the anime, which shows the creative side of the author(f.e. Nico Robin's ability). On top of that all characters develop their skills along the storyline and come up with new techniques really often, which prevents fights from being boring. Aside from that, the scenery changes every arc, which means that if you didn't like the former arc/island/side characters/villain you get a refreshing new start, a new island, new side characters and new antagonists. Lastly, props to toei animation for not producing many fillers.There are also things I didn't quite like though. In the pro's section I mentioned that the plot is simple. Well, for me it's too simple. It's almost always like this: Luffy and his squad visit an island , they meet a person that guides them around, but this person has a sad side story and is a victim to a villain, who is usually trying to take over the island. Luffy decides to protect this person and then all chaos ensues until he finally beats the enemy. There have obviously been exceptions to this pattern but I still find it quite boring and predictable at times. I also mentioned that all the characters are unique, have their own goals and their funny and enjoyable characteristics. That may be true but I feel like we don't see enough character development along the story's progression. If we look at most main characters since we saw them for the first time and compare them to how they are now, not many things have changed. I also think some characters are quite unnatural. Their personalities are simply not complex or developed enough to match a real person. Every crew member just has 3-4 main traits and that's it(f.e. Luffy is too happy and oblivious for a normal teenager). This also applies for the villains. If you look at other animes (Naruto, Death Note in this case) the villains have always a greater thing they want to achieve behind their evil plans. They are multidimensional and had a rough past, that's how they ended up like this. They aren't evil just for the sake of it. Up until the most recent antagonist in One piece most others were plainly evil for no apparent reason. Additionally I find the plot too slow progressing. That may be a good thing for some people, who want to keep the anime running but I actually find it unnecessary. Some scenes are simply too drawn out. In fact, it takes them so many episodes to finish an arc, that it equals the time it takes for Naruto to finish an arc + the fillers that follow(For those who don't know, naruto is swamped with fillers. About 40% of the episodes are fillers). We are currently at 700 episodes and they have only reached the middle of the storyline. Talk about being excessive. The last thing that bugged me was its extremely long start. I mean you could call it a marathon. It took about 100 episodes for the anime to get going. The first 100 show us how Luffy assembled the main part of his crew and their individual stories but I didn't find it that interesting to be honest.To conclude, I would give this anime 7/10 for the simple reason that it's not complex enough to satisfy me personally. I still enjoyed watching it so far and will certainly keep watching it in the future, but I wouldn't call it that great either. I had really high expectations when I started it but I feel a little let down by it. It just isn't the anime that would keep me rooted on my seat, waiting to find out what happens next. It's far too simple and predictable for that. Would I recommend watching it? It depends on your personal taste and on if your friends are watching it. I didn't find it that great but I still have a lot of friends, who watch it, so it gives us food for discussion. To sum it up, if you look for an anime, that is casual and high spirited, creative but simple, an anime, which will be there with a new episode every week for at least another 10 years, then I would recommend your watching it. I tried to be as objective and insightful as I could, but the choice is ultimately up to you. (Pardon my punctuation and grammatical errors.)


                
