Annoying frat boy hits on French girl. For 12 hours. But the worst part is that the French girl goes along with it. For 12 hours. And we are forced to go along with it. For 2 hours. This is the kind of movie that makes you want to smack someone.Perhaps it wouldn't have been so bad if there had been some sort of chemistry between Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. I mean, after all, even annoying frat boys can fall in love. But no. The two are so incompatibly different that, despite what the script says, none of the flirtations are believable. I imagine the minute the director yelled "cut", Julie would spin around and head straight for her trailer. Ethan would go soak his head. The problem is that the director never yells "cut". Instead we are subjected to watching the awkward, contrived and stiff ramblings of these two people who have nothing in common except for the script.I saw what the director was trying to do. He was trying to capture the poetry of life through long, continuous shots and mundane dialogue. He was trying to show us how wonderful the simplicity of everyday life can be. But there is nothing artistic or poetic about the shots, the dialogue or the emotion on screen. The whole thing feels like an awkward date you just cant wait to ditch."Before Sunrise" is like "When Harry Met Sally", except without the humour, the charm, the witty style, the plot or the music. In essence, there is no reason to watch this movie. If you do watch this movie, make sure you're not sitting near anyone or you might get smacked.Before sunrise? Heh, I think I'll sleep in.


                
In Before Sunrise, you simply watch two people go on an overnight date. Yippie. I've been on plenty of dates to know how they work, so I certainly don't need to waste my time watching other people do it. The two characters in the movie have extended conversations broken up about every ten minutes to change the scenery and give you a chance to wake up. The conversations are mundane and often pointless. It's like watching a reality TV show, only without all the drama that makes it interesting.The acting is sub-par. Ethan Hawke was okay, though his character was extremely annoying. Julie Delpy, on the other hand, delivered her lines devoid of any emotion. Her way of attempting emotion was to simply stare out the window.This movie appeared to be made simply because the writer wanted other people to hear his ideas about life. This is fine, as many movies have been made for this purpose. However, the flaw here is that this is the only point to the movie. There isn't any connecting plot at all, just a series of conversations. The movie "Tape" (also w/ Ethan Hawke) is also just a series of conversations, though the only setting is one hotel room and the movie is actually just one really long scene. However, "Tape" actually is entertaining in that the conversations have a point and actually move the characters to some sort of resolution or change - this is where "Before Sunrise" fails.To sum up, if you have insomnia, this "film" is your cure. Or, if you're a hermit and you miss having conversations with people, then this will provide for a substitute to interacting with others...just don't plan to be entertained.


                
Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy meet in this critically acclaimed feature presently at time of writing sat at no.214 on IMDb's top 250 movies. They meet, they chat and that's basically the concept of the film.I'm all for "Talkies" but when they have a plot, a purpose, an aim. This seems to lack that and all the core basics a movie must have such as a beginning a middle and an end.Performances are great, the movie is visually appealing but that's as far as it personally goes for me.It's like 90 minutes of having a camera in the Big Brother house and just listening to them waffle on. Only difference is that here the subjects are capable of using words with more than 2 syllable's and aren't desperate Z list celebrity wannabes.Boring, lifeless and I simply don't see the appeal. Out of morbid curiosity I'm sure I'll get round to seeing it's 2 sequels but since I watched Sharknado 2 & 3 that's really not saying much.


                
Before Sunrise is an exceptionally boring movie. It stars Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke as a couple people who meet on a train, spend the night wandering through Vienna, and then go their separate ways at sunrise. I have to admit that there are moments that feel very genuine, and it seems more realistic and heartfelt than most romance movies. The problem is that you have to hear these two people talk, and talk, and talk for an hour and forty-five minutes and neither of them has anything interesting to say. You get to hear Hawke's ideas about reincarnation and Delpy's story about going into therapy after breaking up from a boyfriend she didn't like that much anyway, and yadda, yadda, yadda, blah, blah, blah . . . I wanted to shoot myself in the head.


                
PLOT : Two strangers met in a train , the girl wants to get down with boy ...they roamed all over small city discussing about unnecessary issues...kisses each other ...each promises to meet back after Six months..They both will travel to their own destinations....Nothing much more than thisand the only best part of this movie is acting and chemistry between actors...Plot is so terrible , very disgusting and makes u feel boredIf you want a very old time romance movie then go for it.. Otherwise better don't dare to go ahead.. Not recommended at allMy Rating : 3/10 (For actors only , 0 for other Issues)
Linklater's 'Before' series is one of those perplexing cinematic enigmas where everyone seems to be hexed by some witchcraft through which they must forever push a film that's by any means completely sub-par.Two of cinema's blandest characters attempt to wax philosophic by improv-ing on the profound thoughts you had as a teenager - the ones you had with your very first partner where ten years later you're glad Linklater wasn't there pointing a camera at you.The film is self-gratifying at best and insufferable at worst. It can be recommended only to freshman film students who keep journals dedicated to their poetry and pinings for their first sexual encounter. Even then it should be used as a bar to aim above.


                
This was the first of what became the 'Before' trilogy, three rambling and romantic films starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy.I think this is a film you'll either love or hate, purely because of the style of film it is. There is very little plot, and is very talky instead. That's fine if you're a fan of big powerful speeches, and poetic language, but if you're waiting for a 'big moment' then you're going to be disappointed.I enjoyed this film, I thought it was without doubt a clever film, but I can't say it enticed me enough to make me watch it again, or to see the subsequent sequels.


                
Perhaps I missed something. Too trite conversation and contrived chemistry. I did not for one moment believe these two we're falling in love, just acting like they were. Perhaps it was just the actors falling in love with their own performances.I rented this movie with then hopes that I'd be enthralled as so many others claimed to be, and the eventually move forward through the trilogy. Maybe I expect too much, but this seemed a shallow little movie. For perspective, I thought both Shrek and Moonstruck were wonderful love stories but thought the Titanic was hopelessly unappealing. I would be interested to know the general demographic for whom it held such broad appeal.


                
Barely after a few minutes have passed, you begin to realise what mess you have put yourself into.Indeed, Before Sunrise is just a succession of ultra verbose, conceptual or pseudo-psychological discussions (or even monologues) between these two characters that are Céline and Jesse. There is, so to speak, no real plot, and that is what makes this movie boring and uninteresting. Piling up soporific dialogues about anything and everything, without any specific purpose, can't make a good film.As for the direction, it is flat and uninteresting as the scenario. And Vienna, in the end, is rather badly used and doesn't sublime the movie (and vice-versa).Only Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke managed to extricate themselves, they are refreshing and there is a good chemistry between them.


                
This terrible, pretentious, garbage-filled dumpster-fest of a film should not exist. It is a story of two young people, an American man and a French woman who happen upon each other on a train in Europe. The man is on his way to Vienna to catch a plane the next day home. He invites the girl to travel through the city that night with him in one long romantic adventure. The entire night they talk to each other, spewing the most pretentious, pseudo poetic, fake intellectual acid speak at one another. It seems the entire movie is a competition to see who can be the most pretentious. This movie seems like the birthplace of the hipster generation. It is nauseating and not worth anyone's time.3/10
To be honest, I'm not one for romance, be it in the streets, in books or on screen. However, I like to consider myself as an open-minded person an very much looked forward to watching this film from a director whose work I have sometimes loved (dazed and confused).The story is simple, two people meet on a train, somehow manage to like each others' company in very short time and then spend a night walking the streets of Vienna, handing money to every beggar they meet and sucking up to the Austrian counter-culture.I really did not like this film. Firstly, the characters are uninteresting. Hawke's Jesse appears to be mentally challenged and Delpy's Céline is a pretentious intellectual snob. Anyway, these guys spend a night talking about their half-cooked philosophy of the world and their idea of true, perfect love. You'll get the usual: rebel against your parents, true love never lasts, capitalism is bad, youth is good.It seems obvious that the idea of this movie is to show two young people falling in true love. A type of love that everyone should wish for because it is pure. The viewer is supposed to be moved by the honesty and maybe naivety of these guys. And this is what seriously bothers me. This is a relationship seen through the eyes of an older person, nostalgic of the innocence of his youth. The result is that Jesse and Céline aren't authentic, they are not convincing, rather clichés, they are just somebody else's fantasies.I did however enjoy the simplicity of this movie. The plot, the pace, etc.Enough said.


                
