Before Sunrise is romance for the slacker generation. Richard Linklater's romantic drama is an offbeat telling of a dream come true for most people. The film depicts romance in all it's glory, but without any of the pitfalls that befall most couples; and in short the film is about two people that have a relationship that's as close to perfection as relationships will ever come to - with just one problem, the problem of time. While most relationships wind down with time, this one keeps going strong throughout and time itself is the only thing that wears out. Before Sunrise is certainly not the typical sentimental 'Hollywood romance', which is another aspect that puts this film leagues ahead of the pretenders. The story follows two people, Jesse; an American and Celine; a French girl that meet on a train into Vienna. They instantly connect, and after telling her his awful idea for a television show and almost getting off the train, Jesse asks Celine to join him for the day in the picturesque city of Vienna...Before Sunrise works principally for two reasons - realistic acting and an immense script that builds the characters through their thoughts and feelings and thus allows us to get to know them as we do the people in real life. This allows the characters to be free, and it's easy to believe that these are real people and not just actors working from a script. This also allows us to feel for the characters for who they are, and not merely because they're the protagonists. This kind of realism is hard to capture as, at the end of the day, we as the audience know that they're watching a film and not observing real life; but Before Sunrise represents one of the truest to life exhibitions of realism ever to be seen on screen. A truly great script cannot work on it's own, and needs great actors to deliver it to an extent that does it justice, and although I'm not a fan of either Julie Deply or Ethan Hawke; on viewing this film, there is nothing you can do but give them both respect. I don't know whether they were in character or just playing themselves, but when a film is this good; it hardly matters.In a film like this, it is the writing that's the most important thing, and contained within the script are several observations about life, most of which I personally could relate to. This represents what Richard Linklater has achieved with this script as not only does it create and build the characters, but it also manages to expose what true love is, along with several other aspects of life. The fact that not all the anecdotes are relatable to me personally again represents the brilliance of writing. Everyone is different, and so different parts of the script will appeal to different people. There could be certain aspects about one person that one person loves and another hates; and that's the case with the musings in this script. Adding to the beauty of the film is the city of Vienna. The city itself isn't really important to the film as this is a story that could have taken place just about anywhere - but it makes for some lovely visuals and the upbeat, energetic romance that blossoms throughout the movie is matched by the beauty of the location.Before Sunrise is simultaneously beautiful and captivating. Richard Linklater has created something that is rare in the world of cinema; a film that captures the beauty of life without ever going over the top or being overly sentimental. Before Sunrise is what it is. And what it is, is pure cinematic brilliance.


                
This movie is intelligent. That is, more than most other movies, it transcends the least common denominator - stupid people will probably not appreciate it. The story also relies heavily on dialogue. It has some parallels to Lost in Translation, although Before Sunrise is much brighter, somehow less abstract, and simply a lot better.The script, the characters and even the slightly surreal atmosphere feel totally realistic. The actors play absolutely brilliantly. Rarely have I seen a movie where the script and the acting has melted this perfectly together.The dialogue moves into very personal issues, with the risk of becoming a little over the top. It does, however, stay on the right side almost all the time, although I found a few moments a little awkward and embarrassing. Balancing on this fine line demands outrageously talented actors. Sometimes, it yields great results, and overall this movie is simply stupendous! Only very, very rarely is "love" in films depicted in a way that I find trustworthy and realistic. Every time that is achieved, the result is fantastic. I think the stunning and apparently timeless beauty of the female lead actress helped quite a bit in this respect. She still looks stunning in this film, 12 years after.This is simply a gem of a movie that you can't miss. One of the best movies I have seen from the 1990s!


                
Sweet and charming, funny and poignant, plot less but meaningful, "Before Sunrise" (1995), the third movie of Richard Linklater, is dedicated to everyone who ever been in love, is in love, or never been in love but still dreams of it and hopes to find it. It is one of the very rare movies that is/should/will be equally interesting to teenagers, their parents and even grandparents. It seems a very simple little movie with no spectacular visual effects, car chases, or long and steamy sex scenes. Two young people in their early 20s, two college students (American tourist Ethan Hawke who is returning home after the summer in Europe and the French student Julie Delpy who goes to Paris to attend the classes in Sorbonne) meet on a train. They are attracted to each other instantly even before they start talking, they hop off the train in Vienna where they walk around exploring the city all night. They talk and fall in love. That's it, that's the movie. It could've been boring and silly but instead, it is a lovely, believable, clever, and moving romance that only gets better with each viewing (at least, for this viewer). High praise and my sincere gratitude go to the director and writers for delivering two charming characters, superb writing, always interesting and witty dialogs, two awesome performances, and the atmosphere of magic that falling in love is. Julie Delpy, who looks like a Botticelli's angel, is great in portraying smart, independent, and incredibly attractive young woman.


                
Richard Linklater's beautifully directed mixture of youthful romance and Paris travelogue is one of the 90's best thinking person's romantic movies. Julie Delpy turns in one of the decade's most engaging performances as the Parisian lass who spends a day with stranger-on-a-train Ethan Hawke.  The dialogue (and there is oodles of it) is sometimes meandering and overly precious, but this portrait of two young wannabe-lovers making a romantic, intellectual, and spiritual connection to one another is full of wonderfully amusing, touching and insightful moments.


                
After a chance encounter on the train, a young couple spends a single night strolling the streets of Vienna, discussing life and love. The primary reason to see "Before Sunrise," is to watch a young Julie Delpy deliver her lines. As "Celine," this sexy, brainy, soulful brown-eyed blond is sort of a cross between Brigitte Bardot and Joni Mitchell as they were in their mid-twenties. Risking overstatement, Celine is practically the ideal woman, unusually beautiful and very feminine while being natural, unpretentious, introspective, and selflessly loving. We can easily forgive that she is a bit eccentric and talks a blue streak, for her sincere, intelligent remarks are occasionally penetrating. Further, her varied expressions are nothing short of captivating and she speaks English with a French accent that is very endearing. If there is a fly in the ointment of this good movie, it would have to be her unkempt and disheveled costar. Ethan Hawke as "Jessie" comes off like a vaguely appealing slob, sort of a Maynard G. Krebs of the nineties. Attempting to appear detached and nonchalant, he sort of drags himself through certain shots. His pants fit poorly, his tee shirt is coming untucked, his wavy dark hair (his most attractive feature) needs a good washing, and someone really should have showed him how to properly trim his youthful goatee. Nevertheless, he is supposed to represent an unwashed youth on a two-week train ride around Europe, so the look he has cultivated is probably pretty genuine. His oft-cynical observations and wry sense of humor seem to impress the unapologetically romantic Celine, although she is occasionally disturbed by the extent of his alienation. When he finally admits to her that he is utterly sick of himself and likes being near her because he feels like a different person in her presence, we know he is getting somewhere. After blowing their collective funds on a series of cafes, bars, and silly diversions, they agree that because they may never see one another again, they should make the most of it. Jesse bums a bottle of red wine off a sentimental bartender so that he and his newfound lady love may repair to a local park in the middle of the night to lie on the grass, looking up at the moon and the stars and watching the sun come up. Given his boundless luck in the romance department, it is especially irksome when Jessie, as the very definition of a naive jerk, foolishly allows this wonderful young lady to slip from his grasp. He contents himself with a half-baked plan, quickly devised at the railroad station when he bids her adieu, to reunite at the same spot in half a year. When the appointed time comes, you just know this beautiful and unusual girl will be involved with another, perhaps even married and pregnant. For whatever reason, she probably won't show, while Jesse, who ends up working at Target or (if he's lucky) the local library, will go back to Vienna, desperate to see her again, only to wind up alone.Despite what for me was a very discouraging conclusion, "Before Sunrise" is a beautiful movie. I highly recommend both it and the sequel, "Before Sunset."


                
I saw this movie while browsing through channels and was lucky enough to catch the opening credits. This movie is not popcorn film nor is it funny or complex. Yet I have never seen a movie more Honest, truthful and real in my entire life. It may not be the best movie I ever seen but its up there with the best romance movies. I am not going into any major detail here but frankly there not much MAJOR detail to discuss actually. The entire movie is about a man who meets a woman on train and after decide to spend the entire day since they enjoy just other company.Don't be let down; this is one of the finest movies ever written from the characters to the confrontations everything acted perfectly and genuinely. Directed well with a beautiful ending. This movie may not be everyone's favorite but I recommend watching this you're your girlfriend/wife or Absolutely alone without interruptions. This Film will move you and teach you that life is meant for living and not writing movie reviews on the internet.


                
With so many previous reviews already published about this absolute *gem* of a movie from 1995, I will keep my own comments purposefully short.I must confess that I had effectively ignored this film (and also it's two sequels) for many years, having made the classic mistake of "Judging a book by it's cover". Based on the title(s) and personnel involved, I had filed Before Sunrise as a sugar-sweet "Romantic Comedy" - and with not being a fan of such genres, chose to not bother with watching it. Big mistake!Of course, over the course of the film's (short) duration, there *is* romance and also some comedic scenes and lines of dialogue. However, both are handled in such an expert, "low-key"/subtle manner by the cast, director and cinematographer that at no point did this film annoy me (when again I must concede I felt for certain that it would...).Another reason for previously giving this one a miss was Richard Linklater - a director who I have not encountered often, but I could recall struggling with the likes of "Waking Life" - and "Tape" in particular (I film that I should perhaps now revisit... but at the time felt highly irritated by - sorry, Richard...).Having now taken the plunge and watched all three of the "Before..." trilogy, I cannot recommend them highly enough! I think overall I would say the first part/"chapter" is my favourite - but all three proved to be highly entertaining - mostly as a direct result of the amazing on-screen chemistry between Delpy and Hawke (quite how those two are not a real-life couple is beyond me - so natural are the performances that they give.In fact, at times I almost felt like a voyeur (of sorts) - hanging out with the couple as they meander the streets of Paris (without them being aware)! This is again due to Linklater's superb direction and "up close" involvement you end up having in each and every scene.Sorry for the ramble.. but I suppose the two main points I would like to end on would be:1) Never EVER judge a book (or in this case *film*) by it's cover - and:2) If (like me) you have previously avoided this series of films, GIVE THEM A TRY. I will be very surprised if you dislike them.Nine Out Of Ten.-John


                
What a breath of fresh air. Watching this film makes me wonder why i put myself through watching so many empty, soulless blockbusters. Watching Before Sunrise is a great experience. You feel for the characters, you understand their awkwardness,their joy and their discovery. It's so familiar to so many of us, you also feel their pain and their melancholy toward the end and ultimately, its irresistibly romantic. From a story or narrative point of view, there is nothing, this is all about the human beings in the film and it's all the better for it. Credit must go to Richard Linkater for his unfussy direction, that just allows to film to breathe,unwind and gradually stretch it's legs. I loved Before Sunrise, and i can't wait to catch up with the characters nine years later in the 2004 sequel, Before Sunset.


                
"Before Sunrise" is the most realistic romantic film I've watched, and it's thought-provoking beyond the pseudo-intellectual dialog. This is not a typical Hollywood romance. The characters do not live happily ever-after and they are surprisingly mature for their age (early 20s) about the nature of couple relationships and love.Have you ever wondered why at the end of most romantic comedies the screen fades to black? Because after that, there story ceases to be interesting. And the life of the couple starts on the slow path toward routine and comfort and apathy. One notable exception from that pattern is The Graduate: after the protagonists are reunited and elope on a bus, before the fade to black, the expression on their faces reads "Now what?"Indeed, "Before Sunrise" is one of the very few films who looks at long-term relationships though a realistic, even if cold, lens. "I kind of see this all love as this, escape for two people who don't know how to be alone." You might not like this if you're still in the infancy of your emotional development. "Jesse: Why do you think everybody thinks relationships are supposed to last forever anyway? Celine: Yeah, why. It's stupid." You'll like it and identify with it if you've been through things (or if you've read about them - see Laura Kipnis' book Against Love).Yet the characters are not jaded, so the romantic in your will rejoice as much as the cynic: "Listen, if somebody gave me the choice right now, of to never see you again or to marry you, I would marry you."
Before Sunrise is with out doubt one of the best in this genre i have seen.It actually feels nice to watch such a movie filled with human emotions and it indeed raises your energy levels.At all point of the movie it was never boring not for a single moment.The director has got the best and the powerful actors Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy.With the entire movie revolving around just two characters it was very important to have the right actors in lead.Richard LInklater got that right. The director and the script writer have done a superb job. You know its not easy to move a story with two characters in it. All the conversations looks so natural.And it makes you feel like "hey i have been in that situation!".Through out the movie you will be swept off by the chemistry between them.Especially when Ethan asks Julie out in the train! wow! That was very natural.And typically his thoughts are like what every normal man will do. And it leaves everyone in a suspense in the end. All in all its more than just a movie! ART at is best form!! kudos!


                
If there's one film of this type to watch with your girlfriend or romantic friend this is the one. I'm on a mission to watch all of the imdb top 250 and I was over 50% done when I came to this title. I put it on and expected to have it playing on the side while I was browsing the web but after the first couple minutes I knew I stumbled upon something special. It really is a romantic suspense film. You want them to be together but at the same time it sends a message to let yourself live in the moment and be happy with what is going on now, without trying to extend it. It's really a film you can think about and discuss for a long time. The exceptional dialog drives the film and you can tell the chemistry between the actors is something special or else it wouldn't work. Definitely something I actively recommend to people in my life.


                
A wonderful movie depicting Love, circumstances leading to love. What a miracle love is??? Love can only be related to Time. Love can happen at any destination be it a train, bus or road. Before Sunrise has some wonderful dialogues, two beautiful actors and a wonderful director Mr. Linklater. Before Sunrise also shows how much thinking of a Man and a Woman can differ with some wonderfully choreographed scenes. It inspires me to keep hoping and waiting for the right time. Lastly a picturesque location Vienna. A must watch for all Romantic movie lovers, Not only just this particular film but the whole Before series. Before Sunrise also depicts the mundane day to day life and how a single night with your most precious person is so much precious. I personally loved it.


                
It's not often that we feel unloved just after watching a movie. And reminds you of the beautiful moments you had with your loved one. Make you craving just to live that moment again. Well that's what I felt after watching Before Sunrise. You feel alone even if you had a million people around you, Jesse was alone in his world even though he was surrounded by people. After meeting Celine his world has changed, his romantic self revealed even though he was wearing a cynic outfit. When you are with the right one your true self will reveal itself. Such a powerful message has passed to the viewers with a few scenes. When the movie come to it's ending note, it leaves a glimpse of hope for the characters as well as the viewers. They could meet again at least that's what I felt. Love has no boundaries and it never stop teasing us.
The movie is regarded as the bible of love, showing us the magic of strong connection with strangers. The episode that two main characters pretended to make a telephone is quite moving.I would like to catalog this kind of relationship as soul mate. Actually everyone might cherish this kind of relationship as after over 20 years of independent life from each other, the couple is still able to understand each other and exchange other perspectives to each other without prejudice, which is quite of magic feeling. The couple talk about their religion, there views about the way people live in, their unique memory of adolescent period instead of talking about gossip. It seems like they can talk for days without interruption, and silence turns into romantic scene rather than awkward. Drop out the stress of daily life and marriage, the life of them seems to be of every possible and a real adventure to them, they just like branch and river, you carry me, i carry you.The movie really encourage me of never cease reading, traveling, willing to understand other people, and most importantly, the fate of believing in true life, the magic connection between human beings. Quote from my favorite movie Dead poets society, Robin Williams," we write and read poetry not because it's cute, because we are human beings , and human beings are full of passion". Wish everyone good luck!
They are both young and alone, and full of ideas about falling in love and growing old. Jesse has a rather pretentious idea for a 24/7 television broadcast of life as it is, but I am sure he is not just trying to be profound for the sake of getting laid (although in one instance, he cynically muses that a poet must have pre-composed that lovely verse, but changes tact almost straight away because of Celine). But he does edge closer in the tram, and fiddle with his hands and jacket, and in one little perfect moment, go to brush away a strand of her hair almost nonchalantly, but quickly pull out of it as she turns to him. At one point, he scoffs at the idea of such a chance meeting, of everyone always putting big romantic projections onto encounters, but changes his mind when he does this himself. Celine laughs at his idea, and pretends not to notice his advances, but pays closer attention to a sweet anecdote about a young boy learning about death and decides that he is interesting, and not just because of the red in his beard or his blue eyes. Most of this film is talking and talking and talking, and to some that is boring, but for the lovestruck pair it is precious time. Linklater shoots in fluid long takes that are quiet and unobtrusive, and the background of Vienna at night flies past them - this could take place in any city in the world, and their feelings would not change. He relies so heavily on the self-composed dialogue of Hawke and Delpy, and their body language which is a marvellous indication of their growing attraction. In one iconic scene in a music booth, they listen without a word, but their eyes nervously steal glances at and away from each other, and it is so perfectly reminiscent of young love, and how they both pretend not to be lingering in their gaze. In another, they tease and pry via a mock phone call, and reveal, whilst giggling, just how deeply they have fallen in love with each other (and it is so effective that every rom-com has used this device since).They bounce ideas back and forth, and these are conversations which broach great subjects - what the qualities of love are, if there is a god or not, the degree to which you should be frightened of death. The trio's script is so perfectly balanced. There are long winded stories that talk of deeply meaningful things; Jesse recalls a wedding tradition that has the bride and groom stare silently and longingly at each other, and in the aftermath, they too exchange this, though not for an hour (Celine looks away after a spell, perhaps sensing they are moving too fast). And then there are less profound moments; Jesse leans in as if to whisper something deep, and then goes for a kiss. Celine too mars a romantic moment overlooking the city by speaking quite plainly and straightforwardly about it, but instead of a tender touching of the lips they seem to swallow each other's mouths and be smother and squished together. And when they do the usual interrogations, their dialogue is so well written. It is defensive, as if they are in the midst of a perfect daydream but trying to awkwardly justify exactly why they are so easy to fall in love, why they should take a chance with each other, why they are not broken and beyond repair. The pinball machine is the perfect accessory to their passive aggressive reminiscing, and they each have a turn, and a story to tell. Of course, they have their differences, and it is not all airy- fairy. They have starkly different reactions to a palm reader, and here we see a portion of Celine that still believes in the magic that has all but disappeared in 2 decades time. And they both have differing opinions on religion, but seem to see a little magic in each other, and this encounter. This sparks a wonderful conflict at the end of the film. They have spend the entire night together, and against all odds, fallen in love. To get on that train and speak not another word would cement the night forever, to be cherished for all time. But they also cannot bear for it to be over; their almost animalistic final embrace is a testament to that. So they compromise, in the most foolish and lovestruck way imaginable; the fateful 6 months later meeting, no contact info, no room for post-phoning. And is is tragic, and then perfectly encapsulating of their brief love affair, because it becomes a hazy and beautiful moment.
Beautiful movie that captures such a rare but real connection between two people. It certainly puts your own relationship into context and makes you dream a little! The movie does not go over the top with romance, but there's certainly enough of it to make it special. The french accent will never cease to capture me. This movie can be watched by absolutely anyone, even the most manly of men. The only reason I awarded it 9 out of 10 and not 10 is because Ethan Hawke can, in my opinion, be a LITTLE bit cheesy at times, but it certainly didn't ruin anything! I'd give my left and right leg to swap positions with him! A must watch. Can't wait to see the sequels.


                
The kind of connection the two lead characters in Before Sunrise merit is the kind of connection I've only managed to achieve a few times in my life; it's the connection with someone who is a complete stranger, but as soon as you meet him, your wall of protection and tact almost completely crumbles. You feel compelled to share personal information with this stranger, deep thoughts that no one other than you have pondered or heard, and talk until your throat is raw about everything you can think of in that given moment. Your become verbally diuretic, and after it's over, you're upset that the conversation has ended, but you've achieved a state of personal tranquility thanks to a release of all that was on your mind that you are at a sort of bliss. It's a strange thing to articulate, and those who have had that kind of connection know precisely what I'm talking about. To those who can't pinpoint that kind of connection (if you have to think hard about it, you've probably never had one), you're in for one soon.Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise, which kickstarted a trilogy that spanned the course of three separate decades and analyzed Linklater's favorite cinematic idea, time, is an ode to that kind of comfortable, life-affirming connection we all should experience. Linklater thankfully devotes an entire film to that kind of connection, making a film entirely focused on characters rather than the events, the location, or the supporting characters surrounding them. It's as if Linklater got fed up at watching interesting characters, their motivations and their potentials, in other films squandered so other, more trivial matters could be attended to. In Before Sunrise, he strips down everything to two central characters and their views on a variety of different issues, philosophical ideas, and past experiences.Those two characters are Jesse and Céline (Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy), who, from the moment they meet on a train-car from Budapest heading to Vienna, they reveal personal details and personal opinions on love, romance, and just their general upbringings. When Jesse's stop at Vienna finally rolls around, he convinces Céline to hop off the train with him, to which she throws caution to the wind and obliges. The two divulge in a great deal of personal matters together; he is a romantic soul masquerading as a cynic after breaking up with his girlfriend, the whole reason he's in Vienna in the first place, and she has fallen before and is cautious about doing so again. The two, however, recognize their separate agendas and treat this night as their one and only encounter, leading them to get personal and loquacious with one-another while walking through the entire city.As stated, Linklater strips this film back a plethora of layers to simply being about these two characters. Linklater even limits pictorial distractions, as the two characters walking through the city of Vienna leaves for a great deal of possibility to stumble upon something distracting. That occurs, if I remember correctly, once in the film, and it's incorporated so well into the discussion and the flow that you're bound to miss it. It's no lie that Linklater has seriously found himself committed to making this project about this simple yet unbelievably affecting kind of connection, which, in this case, transcends personal bounds into becoming romantic, leading the characters to question how they feel and how they want to proceed.Hawke and Delpy, I feel, aren't doing much acting here; part of me feels they're conveying their own kind of presences to one another and that there's little effort required on their part to change who they are or become something they are not. The film also bears the necessary pacing element of being lax and carefree, never rushing these characters onto the next setup nor making them take detours for comedy's sake. This is Linklater driving the truck down a path that has many different routes and he chooses the most direct route, and simultaneously, the most beautiful and mystifying.Before Sunrise beautifully illustrates the power of human connection through two strong performers and a writer/director obsessed with the impact and idea of time and the realism and the aforementioned kind of connection. Here, he displays his affinity and talent for both through a film that is equal parts contemplative in a philosophical sense and also incredibly beautiful on a human scale. This is a romantic comedy for people who have grown sick and tired of falsified, picturesque romantic comedies and hunger for something genuine, real, and lasting, much like the impact of these characters' relationship with one another in the film.Starring: Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by: Richard Linklater.


                
Very boring in some places, a little corny in others, and sort of awkward in yet other parts. But overall, this movie charmed the very essence of the romance genre to a whole level. Although the entire movie is one long, drawn-out conversation, it cites philosophical and universally deep material that makes the viewer question his/her own relationships and pursuits. From beginning to end, this film attempts and succeeds admirably in capturing the timeless ritual of fundamental human interaction and courtship. Decent acting, amazing scenery, and an illustrious script all cooperate to make this movie a revitalizing breath of fresh air to romance watchers tired of stale, overused plots and predictable characters and stories. From its mundane beginning to its unique and worthwhile ending, Before Sunrise will have its loyal viewers aching for more, and its disappointed viewers at least thinking, in the back of their minds, about the meanings of their own lives.


                
SPOILERS THROUGH: I'll join the large amount of fans of this film in commenting how outstanding it was. I had heard about this movie for so long. Although I've yet to see the second part, I loved this movie and thought it was an extremely well done, thoughtful film. The characters of Jesse and Celine were developed beautifully and the whole movie had a sweetness about it in general. It's a beautiful film and one that any major film buff should see.One might not imagine that two people walking around just having random conversations about..well..everything, could be all that interesting. But it is. This movie struck Me as being about innocence. That and connection. It sometimes seems that the older one gets the more difficult it is to really connect in the way one can when their young. This movie really brings home how great it is to just meet someone who gets and understands you immediately. It's about the mental click where so many movies are concentrated on the physical click. It develops the relationship flawlessly and gets you involved in the characters' lives.It also may make one reminiscent for times gone by. Connections like the one Jesse and Celine share, that almost effortless click, are few and far between and when they do come, they are precious. It's good to see a movie that's light on dramatics and special effects but deep on introspection and dialog. It's a very lovely film and one that really shouldn't be missed.
American Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and French Celine (Julie Delby) meet on a train and start talking.They both become attracted to each other.Jesse suggests she gets off with him in Vienna so they can talk a little bit more.And she does it.And they do talk a little bit more and a little bit of something else.They fall in love but tomorrow it all may be just a memory..Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise (1995) consists of lot of talking.But the way they talk and what they talk about.It never gets boring.And the main actors are the best you can get.Ethan Hawke and Julie Delby share a huge amount of chemistry between each other.This is the best movie for those who hunger for romance.


                
Out of 350 films that I had managed to see that year, "Before Sunrise" caught my attention, imagination and passion for the true cinematic art. It rose above the other entries of the year to stand out as my number one pick of 1995.The thought of finding oneself in a foreign country and discovering the country with a beautiful stranger is a fantasy I think many people can relate to and wish upon themselves. The exotic location of Vienna is a perfect setting for the adventures of two university students meeting up during the last days of their summer vacation. Their discovery of each other is matched beautifully with the sights and scenes of the city, getting wonderful vistas as the couple walks around discovering tings about themselves, each other, and the world that they have been born into.Obviously what makes this film work is the chemistry between the actors. Them seem genuinely interested in each other and throughout the film you want to learn more about them and hope that there is some foreshadowing of what might happen to them in the coming years. But, until 2004, all you had was the 105 mins of them together, walking and talking through the streets. Some might consider this to be a boring way to spend their time, but I think being within the age group of the actors I could relate to many of their conversations and ideals. SO very few films these days are dialogue driven so this was a very refreshing treat indeed.I have seen this film about 5 times and it was like rediscovering it each time. Only the last time did it seem to lose a bit of it's mystery when I knew that it's sequel "Before Sunset" was being released this summer. And as you may have already guessed it's sequel is currently in the running for my favorite picture of the year.


                
Haven studied in Europe for two times in the late 60's and early 70's, this movie really struck home -- the fast trains, great geography, little towns, fantastic scenery overall.  Combine this with the moving story of two students meeting by accident made this an over the top movie for me.  Highly recommended.


                
This is called smart cinema. Smart writing, smart acting, smart directing. I love this flick more than words can say.  This is an intelligent film (intelligent audience: you know who you are) and should be viewed by those who want to see something different yet poignant. This isn't just romance, this is human connection, and Linklater, Hawke, and Delpy nail it on the head. Watch this with someone you love, and appreciate the fact that you have them for more than just a day.


                
Came across this while flipping cable channels, and, well, the channel-surfing stopped. It is a very sweet romantic film that continuously scoots along the surface of the ocean of cliches but somehow never manages to get wet. Even the ending manages to avoid that sickening cloyness that infects so many Hollywood "romances".I freely admit that the events in the film resonate with events in my own life and that is, no doubt, part of its charm. But then I hardly expect that I'm the only person who's lived through something like this.Highly recommended, unless you insist on your movies having explosions and formulaic endings.


                
This movie is the purest form of romance. No comedy or drama, just straight boy-meets-girl. It's entertaining and occasionally quite funny, but it won't work for you unless you are a romantic at heart. The movie is very sweet, has no plot, and is the most gentle picture I can recall at the moment. Nothing even slightly scary happens, and other than a little mild necking, there isn't any sex in it, either. I guess that Ethan Hawke is cute (I'll ask my wife), Julie Delpy is quite beautiful in the movie, and both of the characters are extremely likable.This is a normal Linklater movie, which means that it's about people instead of plot, so if you like his other movies you really should give this one a try.


                
