I don't pretend to have a sixth sense but the truth is, I can sometimes detect the sophomoric and the inane just by the names. That's what has always happened to me with Monty Python, words which simple mention evoke images of shallow, irrelevant material. And that's what LOB is all about. A movie that got everything to convince you to keep a wide berth with anything associated with that outfit. As a reviewer put it well, these are guys who never grew up from the pranks they played in their dorms when in college, just because nobody told them they weren't funny anymore. Nobody told them that putting a guy in drags wasn't enough to get people rolling on the floor, despite what you can see in those hideously overrated M.A.S.H. movie & TV series. Nobody told them that the words Biggus Dickus will only elicit laughs in geeks who still at their forties live with their moms and who never went to a prom because they couldn't even get their own sister to go with them; that just making some character say someone else is weird doesn't mean he is, that most probably he's just lame--like the guy who insists that a crucifixion isn't such a bad thing after all because..."you get some fresh air there". So, if you are not already chocking with guffaws forget about this tripe and go do something more rewarding, such as setting your car on fire for ex..Oh, this is about a guy who's born at the same time as Jesus Christ, but next door, from an annoying woman--a real man playing the part. Then his life takes a parallel course to that of the Messiah, but in supposedly funny ways, all the way to his own crucifixion--that because some other condemned men took his place when he, Brian, was pardoned. The clunker tumbles along in a purely episodic way, from sketch to sketch, without definite structure, direction, as no effort is made to keep an adequate plot development, trusting that the jokes will be funny enough to carry the thing forward. Those supposedly hilarious goofs include a gladiator who has a heart attack in the arena; a group of conspirators hiding from a group of Roman soldiers searching a house, by covering themselves with mantels, crouching on the floor, and the soldiers not finding anyone--oh, wait; give me a minute or so while I pick myself from the floor. Oh, and a leper who was cured by Jesus but who's P.O. now because he doesn't get any alms money anymore. I'm not making it up.The basic idea behind the plot is one of those which have been forever floating around and about which people write stories, make movies. Like that of the guy who lives some adventure only to wake up and realize it was only a dream; or the man/woman whose life alternates between dream states and awakened ones, to realize at the end the dreams were the reality after all and the perceived reality just a dream. Here is about a guy who becomes an unwilling Messiah. I wrote a story about the same topic, at that time by coincidence, and there was nothing gratuitous about it, as it was the way I reacted to the horrendous news coming from Guyana about the mass suicide, or murder, of almost a thousand followers of cult leader Jim Jones, who died also in that tragedy. The point I tried to make there is the same Brian makes when addressing the crowd--in the only scene worth to be watched--that people should stop looking for salvation elsewhere than in themselves, because the most probable outcome will be that they'll fall in the hands of some self-serving charlatan who will only used them for his own benefit. Now, had LOB been structured around such an idea, that could have probably made for a better and more intelligent film, but it is obvious that Monty Python was going here for the easy laughs, so the claim that they intended to do something deeper, more serious than a simple series of sophomoric sketches, rings rather hollow.In all, basically a good idea; one that could have worked well, even as a comedy, in the hands of people really giving serious thought to it. 1/10.
How surprised am I that trite like this should end up in the IMDb top 250. Another boring 'comedy' from the stables of Monty Python. Please avoid this movie at all costs. The laughs come few and far between and at the most I managed a snicker. Story is (if you care, because its not about that) a boy is born to a man dressed up as a woman who shrieks all the time and gets on your nerves till they are stretched to the limits. As a matter of fact most of the characters in this movie squeal a lot to the effect that I almost thought that this is a move about pigs disguised as humans. So yeah Brian is born to a man dressed up as a woman on the same day as Christ in a stable adjacent to the stable where Christ is born. And Jesus Christ does it get worse from there. He grows up to hate the Romans and joins a group of liberalists who are plotting against the Romans. From there on Brian finds himself at the wrong place and the wrong time usually to eventually become a messiah of sorts to eventually be strung up for crucifixion to eventually sing his way into the sunset. The same people play different roles(you will see familiar faces playing multiple roles), you will notice the difference by the increase/decrease in pitch of their voice depending upon how irritating they are trying to be. I wasted 1.5 Hours of my life on this. You have been warned!
just plain bad not even slightly funny .jules what were u thinking.It isn't a little funny not one laugh occurred when i saw it. It wasn't only me who hates it a lot of people did,i just can't understand how people could like this garbage.it is silly and immature and anyone who likes it must have the mind of a child. it is really stupid.please if your considering watching this please take caution.oh and if you were thinking of watching the other one please don't it is worse.i hope this warning is useful to you. yes also please no one decide to use this movie for a media studies project please don't do it. the humor in it is just stupid i mean i see it on the screen and i just don't laugh it just not funny!!


                
I have tried to watch this film many times. Tried, but not succeeded. The latest attempt has just failed. Anyone who criticises this film is immediately accused of finding the subject matter offensive, which couldn't be further from the truth. The concept is very funny and in the right hands could be made into a good movie. But the acting in this is woeful. Think of a group of self- congratulating nerds at college who decide to act out one of their own unfunny jokes and drag this boring skit on for over two hours. That's what you've got with this movie--a skit that might have been funny at the Oxford drama club spun out with dire acting and vulgarity. And when I use the term vulgar, I don't use it lightly. I write erotic gay novels, so I've never been accused of being a prude, but the Monty Python cast arguing about nose-picking over the Sermon on the Mount was so pathetically schoolboyish that I cringe in embarrassment for them. And that's what sums this movie up. If you find schoolboy japes and highjinks about farting and nose picking funny you'll probably like this.


                
Whenever I say this film revolted me, people look knowingly, or smugly, or even pityingly at me, and say, ah, it offended your religious beliefs, you thought it blasphemy. No, I say, I don't have any religious beliefs and it was something far worse than blasphemous. It was inhuman. For the record, this film is a blatant and obvious con-trick, and was always meant to be that. By making schoolboy jokes about supposed Christianity, and the clichés of Biblical epic movies, the Monty Python gang could pretend that they were being terribly daring, that they were prepared to risk their reputations by taking on the might of the Church. They did nothing of the sort. The jokes are just stupid, and often very nasty, demeaning to common humanity; they're not in the least satirical or brave or savage. They're also not funny. But, because jokes about religious matters were uncommon in dumb comedies in 1979, the brain-dead idolaters of the team could tell themselves that it was real cutting-edge stuff, and then the Pythons could add to their unmerited lustre by pretending they were somehow "more than merely funny". More than funny? Come off it. I smiled momentarily maybe four times, mostly thanks to the uncredited Spike Milligan, who, in a few seconds of screen-time, was better value than the whole of the rest of the cast. The film reeks of contempt for its own fans; you will find this hilarious, it commands us, because we tell you it is, and you will be grateful that we have condescended to entertain you. It is, in fact, vulgar swill which cheapens us all, and its admirers should be ashamed of themselves.


                
wHAT...wHAT....hOW CAN YOU JUST SAY THAT THIS IS A GREAT COMEDY?With this movie in my mind i NEED A DOCTOR...just saw holy grail and life of Brian.....and this is the worst thing i ever saw and did in my life, yES Sir.So now i am trying to talk, it is the time when we have started making fun of good in its best form and yeah why not, we think its just senseless and fool comedy movie and hence such jokes are cool.....I think hahaha the very presence haha of such type of movies is a threat to human beings. lET ME contROL mySELF. Hell i cant even talk now.This movie or movie or mevoi whatever you call it is amazing work of .... i am still laughing on how shamelessness attempt can be celebrated...or whatever you call it again. Such kind of films and the people loving them is a pure and serene indication that soon there will be a time when rapes, assaults and stuffs will be given a status of comedy ; today we have black and dark comedy....may be that will be categorized as "HARD COMEDY".So basically in our world of freedom , such movies cant be blamed and banned but (now folks this is alliteration, the figure of speech) when they receive high ratings and huge following i am sure that we are not on wrong path. The film is about losing your brain out of logic and dumping it buried. Think God movie like Ship of Theseus are there to elevate your intellect.


                
Worse and worse every time they made a film. THis one, made in 1979, is the pinnacle of their low taste, lack of moral, morality or ideas. Made the same year with excellent Jesus movie, this one is a shame of all they ever did. Nothing is funny here - the same silly grimaces of Idles, or Gilliam, or Innes or any other guy. The whole idea of exaggeration could have been good, but here it flops, fails, dies before getting even a wee bit funny. The whole 2 hours are a torture, overrated schlock and complete, vapid dross. Dross. Ash. Dead horse of a film. Humor? Is it here? Some claim there is. I stand with great late Malcolm Muggeridge who thought that film was a terrible piece of manure. He was not so straight, but I say that knowing that many fans of Monty would attack me angrily. But there are those who dare to say the true thing - this film simply is horrid. Point.


                
Monty Python's Life of Brian, also known as Life of Brian, is a 1979 British religious satire comedy film starring and written by the comedy group Monty Python (Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin). It was also directed by Jones. The film tells the story of Brian Cohen (played by Chapman), a young Jewish man who is born on the same day as, and next door to, Jesus Christ, and is subsequently mistaken for the Messiah.Following the withdrawal of funding by EMI Films, longtime Monty Python fan and former member of the Beatles, George Harrison, arranged financing for Life of Brian through the formation of his company HandMade Films.The film contains themes of religious satire that were controversial at the time of its release, drawing accusations of blasphemy, and protests from some religious groups. Thirty-nine local authorities in the United Kingdom either imposed an outright ban, or imposed an X (18 years) certificate, effectively preventing the film from being shown, since the distributors said it could not be shown unless it was unedited and carried the original AA (14) certificate. Some countries, including Ireland and Norway, banned its showing, with a few of these bans lasting decades. The filmmakers used such notoriety to benefit their marketing campaign, with posters in Sweden reading, "So funny, it was banned in Norway!"
Okay, it is about Brian, a simple guy who was born next to Jesus and parrelled his life and such. But this is not that funny, they could have made it more slap-sticky like "The gods must be crazy" or "Animals are beautiful people". For me, "Life of Brian" is the sort of movie one ends their film career with. It is boring and stupid at points, like especially at the end. But I must give it credit, it portrays Palestine correctly and how it was like at the time. The acting is okay, but Brian's mother is annoying and you could really tell the actor was a man, no woman could be that ugly. Anyway, nice movie to rent though for the fun of it.


                
