The Pythons' 1979 movie has its moments but doesn't replicate the mix of intellectualism and absurdity that defined "Flying Circus" and "Holy Grail." "Brian" is altogether too linear and grounded for the Pythons. One notable exception, an alien abduction, feels a bit strained, like a conscious attempt to do something random. It would have been one of the most pedestrian segues on an episode of "Flying Circus."Moreover, religious fundamentalism seems far too easy a target for the Pythons. Satire was always an important part of their act, and there are some very funny instances of it here at the expense of the People's Front of Judea (PFJ) and its similarly-named but much-despised splinter groups, but nothing quite as sharply-written as the exchange with the anarcho-syndicalist peasant in "Holy Grail." Moreover, the scenes never seem to end quickly enough after the points have been scored. The same wells, whether PFJ infighting or crowds slavishly following (and misunderstanding) prophets, are visited so often that the movie becomes predictable and stale, adjectives not often heard in reference to the most influential sketch comedy troupe of all time.The best bits here are more low-brow: Romans with sophomoric names that send the centurions into uncontrollable giggling fits, and straight- faced full-frontal nudity. Even in these cases, though, incredibly slow pacing saps some of the humor. A gag about speech impediments, for example, takes ages to play out to its conclusion. The film ends well, though, with a perfectly earnest Eric Idle singing the hilarious earworm "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life."Some religious groups and even entire nations (Ireland and Norway) took the Pythons' bait and reacted with great offense to the release of "Brian," a fact that says a lot more about the time period than it does about the movie, which hardly justifies such a response. From a contemporary perspective "Flying Circus" seems far more subversive than "Brian" in the sense that it forged new comedic ground and tested the limits of the television format. "Brian" doesn't reach beyond what the Pythons had already achieved, and, in failing to succeed at anything different, compares unfavorably.
This movie will be either something you like or you don't and unfortunately I didn't enjoy it as much as I thought i would


                
I usually HATE Monty Python and I have good reason - its seeing men in drag ridiculing religion that makes me sick. However after seeing this movie, I saw some potential in the comedy troupe. It definitely got me laughing in a lot of scenes, especially ones hinting at Pontius Pilate being gay. That was great. Even though they were Brits portraying Jews, I still laughed at things like "Hey Big Nose!" And you "You bloody Romans!" I was hoping for some gore, but some scenes got weird like the aliens grabbing Brian. I guess a couple jokes bashing Christianity were appalling, but for the most part a very funny movie. Although I still prefer Holy Grail as the only real funny Monty Python film, this movie still had me laughing anyway.


                
This was my favorite Monty Python film some years ago. Graham Chapman is the best serious actor in the group and I really liked the sudeo history of ancient Palestine. Like I said, at the time, I found this to be pretty funny and thought that it really wasn't offensive to Christianity.But since I've taken my religion seriously in the past several years I have begun to see that it is offensive and mocking of Christianity."But it's Brian!!!" I know it's Brian. I do, however the Python boys themselves have stated publicly that their intentions were to parody Jesus and Christianity. They cleverly use the device that we are following Brian and not Jesus and obviously show Jesus seriously delivering a sermon in a quick shot and yet the whole picture is taking shots at Christians and making light of the miracles of Christ.Sure if you don't believe or have a limited faith you might eat these "harmless" parodies up. After all the Jews are spoofed with their stonings and their revolutionaries and the Romans are poked fun at, so what's so bad about showing Brian? Well, Brian may not be the Messiah, but his followers think he is and the whole moral of the story seems to be that these people are just blindly following. Following Brian as they followed or currently follow Jesus.We see them attributing miracles to Brian as a man falls into a pit, still blind! They are making fun of Christians, they are making fun of me. They are making light of the miracles of Jesus by using Brian as His representation. "But they showed the real Jesus... This is Brian..." Right! Sure! The catchy tune and the singing on the cross may be funny to some, me at onetime included, but if you truly believe in the sacrifice of Jesus; this torture is not funny. This movie ceases to become funny when one is looking at it from a point of view of faith.The Monty Python gang was a talented group of people who liked to go overboard with the naughty bits. But this time they did go too far. Idle admits that the film is heretical and though they cloak their real motives with the invention of Brian the core message is one of disrespect for Christianity and "Jesus freaks" like myself.
