And in the 1979th year of Our Lord, God took in a screening of Monty Python's "Life Of Brian," and thought it was funny. He did NOT think the film was blasphemous or offensive in any way. Yea, God did admire it's incredibly clever pokes at religion and at religious fanatics, for God Himself knew the virtue of being able to laugh at one's self. He also knew before He even walked into the theater that the title character, Brian, was NOT Jesus Christ, but merely a man who was born at the same time as Christ---right next door, in fact---and became mistaken for a messiah. God settled into His seat, with popcorn in one hand and diet soda in another, and had a rollicking good time.He recommended "Life Of Brian" to His Son, Jesus, who went to see it the following week. He, too, thought it was a hilarious film, and immediately sang the praises of the Monty Python troupe---John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam & Michael Palin---for creating such a wonderful spoof. And He recommended the film to His friends. Have an open mind, He told them, and have fun. But God and His Son were quite puzzled why so many people in the Bible Belt community were so upset by "Life Of Brian"---especially the ones who hadn't even bothered to SEE the frigging film for fear of being damned for all time. And They both shook their heads in dismay. It's only a movie, They thought, and a very funny, harmless one at that. Get a life!But God gave Monty Python's "Life Of Brian" the power to overcome such ridiculous adversity, and today, well over two decades later, the film is rightfully regarded as a comedy classic, and one of the Python's finest works. It's *still* not a film for everybody, but does it have to be? If you're in tune with the Python's style of zany comedy, you'll enjoy "Life Of Brian."And praise be to Saint George Harrison, late of The Beatles, for lending the Pythons a hand in making this wonderful movie. :-)


                
When a film is still funny 25 years after it's made, and doesn't feel particularly aged, even a quarter of a century later, then you know that you've struck gold. The famous Monty Python crew once again take a well-known subject and make a lot of fun of it. This time, the subject is religion, or, more specifically, Christianity. Everyone who knows at least a little about Christianity, which is pretty much anyone from the western world, will probably be able to laugh at something in this movie. Unless, of course, you are very Christian yourself, in that case you will probably feel that the film is blasphemous(I don't personally think so, since it makes fun of the followers and the general stupidity of people and organizations back in 30-something A.D., rather than Jesus and his teachings). The plot is about as incoherent as the usual Monty Python team film, though it should be noted that, like Monty Python and the Holy Grail, it is an actual film, and not a series of sketches, like, for example, the Meaning of Life. It's about as paced as they usually are, most of the scenes contain a lot of jokes, and then they move on to the next scene, after about five minutes of jokes and sight gags. This is, unfortunately, the problem with their films; if you don't like the jokes, the film might seem extremely slow to you; of course, one could argue that Monty Python mainly make movies for the jokes sake, but they could do better on the pacing, for the sake of viewers who don't like all those repeated jokes. That's not to say that I don't like them, I laugh at them most of the time, heck, I laughed so hard that I almost got stomach ache from it at one particular instant. But, I guess that a lot of people won't like them for this way of making movies. Oh well. You can't please everyone. The humor is great, it's standard Python wacky, crazy humor, so every Python fan should enjoy it. People who don't like Monty Python should give this a chance too, if they have at least a little humor, and they aren't Christian extremists. Christian "believers" can probably laugh at it too, like I said, it's not the religion itself, it's more the brainwashed followers that the film makes fun of. All in all, a great film for fans of the Python crew, and people who have a sense of humor about religion(a dark sense of humor, that is). I recommend it to fans of Monty Python, people who enjoy dark humor and people who can laugh a little at the less intelligent parts of Christianity. I fall into all three categories, and I loved it. 8/10


                
''Life of Brian'' is, in my opinion the second best film of Monty Python's movies,only losing for 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail''. Polically incorrect, banned banned from theatrical release in Ireland,banned in Norway for blasphemy, this movie is a parody and a comedy about a guy named Brian, who makes a parallel with the life of Jesus Christ in Jerusalem. Brian was born in the same day and almost the same hour as Jesus Christ,no to mention they both live in the same country and city; but Brian is a regular guy, until he become a member of ''People Against Judea'' (or something like that) and many situations starts to happen.With the same actors who worked in the others Monthy Pythons, this is one of the funniest movies someone can watch!
!!!! SLIGHT SPOILERS !!!!This is one of the most controversial movies ever made with several councils in Britain banning the movie , but I won't go over that same as I won't comment on other peoples opinions what is the best bit . I will come forward and say I thought the funniest scene in the movie was when Brian was brought by the centurion to speak to Pontious Pilate ( Who has a speech impediment ) and the centurion informs Pilate that Brian's father's name is obviously made up " It's a joke name sir like Silluis Soddus or Biggus Dickus "" What's funny about Biggus Dickus ? I have a dear fwiend called Biggus Dickus " A sentry laughs and Pilate reprimands him . The conversation continues with Biggus Dickus being mentioned once again causing the sentry to crease up with laughter " Right I want him taken away to fwight wabid wild animals . I shall not have my fweinds widiculed in this way " Pilate surveys the woom , oops I mean the room " Does anyone else feel like a giggle when I mention my fwiend Diggus - Dickus . He has a wife you know . Incontenentia . Incontenentia Buttocks " The sentries collapse in whoops of laughter and Brian makes his escape which in my humble opinion is the funniest scene from one of the funniest movies ever made And did anyone think Maximus the hero from GLADIATOR had an equally silly sounding name ?
Even now this movie isn't boring! Everyone who has a little sense of humor should find at least some parts funny.I'd recommend watching this movie when you just want to have some fun with your friend for example.After all these jokes just don't get old at all.The role of Brian basically is a man who was born in the same moment in the house next to Jesus.And from there his life goes on and gets funnier every second.Brian just always is in the wrong place in the wrong moment.He has such bad luck on his journey,which makes it really fun to for example getting followed by many religious people that thought he was telling story's about god.The end also is a really fun experience.I rate the movie 8/10 because it's really funny but definitely not perfect.There are no mistakes but also nothing to stunning.


                
Coming from the Monty Python group, Life of Brian is classic British comedy at its best - perhaps one of the most intellectual comedies made. Downright sardonic and profane in its making, Life of Brian is all about Brian who is born on Christmas day in a stable next to Jesus and spends his life being mistaken for a messiah. Brian's life is sketched parallel to that of Jesus, cleverly letting the filmmakers lampoon everything from religious zealotry, mob hysteria, sword/sandal epic movies and some hard hitting political travesty. All the gags and sequences could appear a bit juvenile to those not familiar with the Monty python style of comedy , but the movie is indeed a laugh riot and the makers live up to their earlier hit Monty Python and the Holy Grail with downright clever satirical wit and commentary on totalitarianism, history, politics and most importantly religion. Some scenes to watch out for would be of Brian dropping a gourd and a shoe, his followers absurdly split into two groups, each worshipping a different relic - a hilarious take on the multi sectarian worshipping practices existing today or Brian uttering some gibberish to a crowd out of fear wrapped in some enigma that makes a blind mob follow him as the next prophet. That said and done my favorite part of the movie would be the blatantly original caricature of left-wing resistance groups with their endless subgroups, internal politics, conflicting agendas and vain ideology / speech without any results (ala Sankaradi in Sandesam!). Quite understandably, this flick was banned in many a European country until recent times for the supposedly sacrilegious take on religion (unsurprising with so with many parts parodying nativity, crucifixion et al). However on close watch, it never makes fun of Jesus - but it does thwart the blind, fanatic followers of any political movement or religion in a quite comical fashion. A controversial piece of comedy - a remainder to the critics that banning movies or cutting movie scenes based on religious pretexts exists in Hollywood / British movies as well as early as 1979, and is not limited to the Asian market of Viswaroopam, Padmavat etc.


                
Every creative team has a classic, and this is the Python peak - the story of Brian Cohen aka Brian of Nazareth aka 'a very naughty boy' aka The Messiah (allegedly) and his parallel story with the life of Jesus Christ.The script is tightly written, with a number of roles for many of the Python team (except Graham Chapman, who is in almost every scene as the hapless Brian) - giving the movie life and familiarity.  Perhaps the only bit which doesn't quite work is the appearance of the spaceship but it is sufficiently off-the-wall to be acceptable.Look out for a lovely bit by Spike Milligan, a true class act.  And enjoy both the snappy songs (especially the opening Shirley Bassey pastiche number) and the Tunisian scenery.


                
Although this movie is made mostly for laughs, I think the Python comedy troupe recognized what opportunities the genre afforded them, and used it to their advantage as a way to inspire people to be better. In my opinion, movies should be any combination of three things: entertaining, thought provoking, and inspiring. While entertainment is at the forefront here, there are some of the other two elements here. The primary two things that I think they are trying to get across here is 1. Be able to think for yourself and 2. Be careful who you follow. These subtle ideas are probably more incriminating on religions than any of the actual jokes made. But in some ways, the psychology of the masses that follow Brian are not as inaccurate as they are made to be.There is a bit of a different feel from Holy Grail here. Once again, every actor has his own style of comedy and plays similar characters, but there is slightly less absurdity, less budget cut gags, and much more verbal comedy. Graham Chapman plays our protagonist again, and mostly makes us laugh through his facial expressions and reactions to the events around him. John Cleese plays most of the supporting cast and probably has the most lines out of any actor. Terry Jones is featured a few times in very different roles, but always making us giggle at his vocal versatility. Michael Palin makes a few appearances, most notably as the ex-leper. But Eric Idle really steals the show in this one, popping up all over the place, often multiple times in the same scene and always with a big grin on his face.I'm not quite sure what makes the comedy of this movie feel so spot on. Holy Grail was hilarious for sure, but it was outrageous and didn't change tone very much. But with Life Of Brian, it just seemed like the Pythons knew just when to extend their jokes and where to stop them off and how to blend their jokes. Brian haggling over price when he doesn't want to is funny enough, but then they take it further and make it happen at an incredibly inconvenient time. Having a Roman general named Biggus Dickus isn't worth making an extended joke with a whole family of off-color names, so instead they make it a bigger joke by directing the humor at the guards not being able to contain their laughter. Then you get a couple random moments like Brian getting suddenly picked up by aliens. And then adding in tiny laughs like the guy who says he's not different round it out. Of course, this doesn't mean it will make everyone laugh, and it's definitely not LCD comedy, but it just seems like they nailed their comedic pacing. It's really too bad that so few comedies today decide to be more intelligent and original, but I won't go into that.If you liked Holy Grail or Meaning of Life, definitely watch this. If you were turned off by Holy Grail, this will probably be more appealing to you because it's less absurd. It's probably the best one of the three to start with if you aren't sure you'll like the style, though Holy Grail is the most kid-friendly. There really aren't that many jokes that poke fun at Christianity, but much of the humor requires some biblical knowledge to be fully appreciated. So, this may not be the comedy for you, but I would give it about ten minutes and if you aren't amused by then, it's not worth your time. Overall Rating: 8.6/10.


                
The style of comedy is refreshingly intelligent with a high level of satire and depth. However, unlike The Holy Grail I felt this movie lacked the same entertaining substance. While it created a large amount of laughs and evaluative thoughts on society, it just did not create the same fleshed out story and entertainment value in terms of plot and retained interest. In response, the wit of this humor began to tire without a substantive basis to complement. This does not mean this unique style is not commendable as unlike most movies, Monty Python develops themes and depth at every whim of comedic dialogue, but only that it pales in comparison to the group's masterpiece.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.As much as "Life of Brian" (1979) is a good movie / comedy - its an intelligent movie to begin with. Yes, the absurd it shows us is kinda absurd, but on the other hand, there are even more absurdity in life and religion. I liked the performances in this movie. Directing and script were great. The ending was great. Its not a perfect movie, but i kinda was surprised of how intelligent actually it was if you think about it. Also everyone gets their "share" in this movie - Jewish, Romans and everyone else. This is a good movie overall.


                
Personally, I think this is one of the most intelligent comedies ever made. Sure, it does have its share of simple slapstick and naughty moments, but generally, the topics the Pythons tackle here are very serious - albeit dealt with in a way that makes this a true contender for the funniest film of all time. A firework of hilarious sketches, timeless quotes and clever comments on the human condition, this film was deemed too dangerous for the masses and therefore, until recently, banned in several countries. This film never once makes fun of Jesus (Christ) - but it DOES take the mickey out of blind, fanatic followers of any political movement or religion. An outstanding achievement and endlessly re-watchable.


                
Firstly, I can not believe they tried to ban this due to blasphemy. Anyone with a shred of intelligence will realise, it is not a story mocking Jesus or religion, but is just a comedy set around the Jesus era based on a man who is mistaken as a Messiah. Very early in the film this is established as Brian is part of a crowd actually listening to Jesus giving a speech to the people.If you enjoy the over-the-top comedy of this masterpiece, then you will undoubtedly enjoy Monty Python and the Holy Grail. With the Python boys from the series cast in many different roles, the cast is not the largest, but one of the funniest you will ever see. You soon forget you have just seen John Cleese playing the part of a rebel leader before he is cast to play a roman soldier on the lookout for the rebel leader and his gang. This shows the high level of acting involved.The comedy is still as fresh in 2005 as it was when it was made, and a must-see for any fan of John Cleese, Eric Idle and comedy in general.
I first watched this one 15 years ago and it instantly became on of my favourite movies. Having watched it several times since then, I can honestly say that it still manages to make me laugh out loud at some scenes and generally put a smile on my face for it's entire duration. Next to Holy Grail, this is definitely the best Monty Python movie and one of the best satire/parodies ever filmed. The Monty Pythons crew play a large number of roles, doing an excellent job each and every time. Some scenes are hilarious (like the stoning, or the Biggus Dickus scene) and the rest will put a smile on your face without even realising it. And the best part is that there is more to this movie than just humor.Highly recommended to everyone (especially Monty Pythons fans). I give it 8 out of 10. An remember: Always look at the bright side of life!!


                
Look, I can't say I'm a big Python fan, but of all the movies they have made I find this to be the one with the most heart. Some of the set ups and jokes might not be as funny as those in some of the other films, but it is the most cohesive in terms of plot, theme and political content. Also, the performances are outstanding. And while most of the other endings of the other films feel like an anticlimax, the ending of "Brian" left me with a smile on my face and extremely satisfied. It's a pity that this film still courts controversy, it's message is a valid one and not executed in a cruel or unfair manner. And bear in mind, it's still funny in it's ridiculousness. I loved every minute of it and regret that there will be no more Python movies.


                
Actually, this is Monty Python's only film in the sense that it, unlike "Holy Grail" and "Meaning of Life", has a continuous story and persistent characters.  What also raises this film above the afore-mentioned two is its brilliant (and quite wicked) humor.  The scene where Brian paints anti-Roman slogans on a wall and ends up getting an impromptu Latin lesson (at the point of a sword, no less!) is, well, what can I say, a moment of comedic genius.


                
Brian is an ordinary Judean who just happened to be born at the same time as Christ (leading to some confusion among the wise men). He grows up with a dislike of the Roman occupiers and falls in with a terrorist group known as the Judean People's Front. It isn't long before this gets him into trouble with the Romans and they plan to crucify him. He manages to escape, with the help of a passing spaceship, but soon has other problems. After posing as a street side preacher he picks up a group of followers who believe that he is the Messiah!These days it is hard to see why this film was considered controversial; it is clear from the opening scene that Brian is not Jesus under another name. It is however very funny; a series of hilarious and eminently quotable scenes that combine to make a great film. The Monty Python team are on top form, each of them playing a number of roles. Graham Chapman stands out as he plays the eponymous Brian; an ordinary man caught up in extraordinary events. The jokes are all pretty funny but if one doesn't particularly amuse you another will be along shortly. The film feels fresh and relevant today; in fact some of the satire could have easily have been written in the present day as we see rebel groups who hate each other more than their official enemy and people are executed for supposed blasphemy where the accusers won't repeat what was allegedly said as they would be considered blasphemous too. If you are a fan of laugh out loud comedy then this film is a must it is hilarious from start to finish.
Brian was born on the same day of Christmas. Just next door to Jesus Christ. Later, when he was grown up, the get involved in all the troubles of life. He get's into troubles one another, giving a great laugh riot for the audience. At a moment, while trying to escape from the Roman guards, people mistake him for the prophet. Whatever he says, was taken in a spiritual way.As the previous film, the main 6 actors play almost around 50 characters. A really entertaining movie. Give a try if you like comedy films. Do not miss a laugh.#KiduMovie


                
Few films are funny, few satirical and few religious and a few more political. This is religious, political, funny satire.Set in the backdrop of B.C when Jesus Christ was born and the same day when Brian was born. He says same as Jesus Christ said and is even crucified like Jesus Christ. So we have a whole life of a man who is made a Messiah in completely funny way. The best was when the the Roman king says dialogues where "R" becomes "W". You must listen them and they are utterly hilarious. It's good because it's whimsical, witty and wonderful. There are lot many subtexts that question faith and even our way of following faith, though not mine, but many others. No wonder, if it was accused or even banned by the Christian communities for it's depiction of religion and customs. But, this a whole hearted and fun filled film that would be enjoyable if we leave out our prejudices and beliefs and see it. There are high chances that you ail like it. There are many funny things to begin with, Brian's mother is acted by a man, I felt that funny. The quarrel about a nose, the revelation of being Roman and even the organised crucifixion. Ah, those are not those typical laugh out loud moments but sure there is inherent comedy in them. Technically, this has good production values, good art direction, good costumes, great acting, fine editing and sound design and superb lines. Now, I thank Terry Gilliam for starting Monty Python series and to Terry Jones for directing this film. It's totally stupid and even maniacal and a must watch film.Watch if you like out and out fun films. No brainer this, but long detailed and funny scenes make this a 4/5 movie for me.


                
I've never been a huge fan of Monty Python's Flying Circus as most of it is far too over the top with blunt humour to boot. Wasn't too keen on The Meaning Of Life either and as for The Holy Grail, well that was pretty good but still was rubbish in places. Life of Brian on the other hand is extremely watchable and quite funny for the Monty Python crew where the humour still isn't the sharpest but it doesn't need to be. My favourite part has to be when Brian is being took away by the Roman soldiers and Judith starts to smack the back of John Cleese's Roman centurion character and her final smack knocks his helmet crooked and he turns round and says "stop it" but it was the way he said it which had be laughing my head off! Just little things like that which makes this the best Python movie. Graham Chapman as Brian is great as he plays his charachter in a similar way as he did Arthur in Holy Grail (being funny by being serious), shame he died a while back as he is one of my favourite Pythons. Has to be admired for its originality and i think Life Of Brian is for anyone and yeah the song at the end 'Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life' is a nice way from stopping the movie having a tragic end which would have been a terrible thing for a comedy spoof flick but the song is annoying so why they released it into the British pop charts in the early 90's is beyond me even though Eric Idle's performance on Top Of The Pops was funny. Funniest film ever? Nope. A very funny film? Yes indeedy. 8/10


                
Where to begin?I like this film.  I have it on video and it one of the few that I can watch again and again and still be laughing.  I think I first watched it when I was in my early years and found it funny that there was swearing (I was an impressionable child and found casual swearing amazingly funny).It wasn't until I started University and I had (just) got over this phase that I happened to see the film in a sale.  I thought I'd buy it just to lapse back to my childhood and see if it was funny.  It was, and this time for entirely different reasons.  The situation for a start.  The fact that at the time of Jesus, there can be an ordinary person leading a normal life who happens to become 'famous' (for want of a better word) for all the wrong reasons.Add to that, a few throw away lines and some excellent acting (Michael Palin in particular) and you have a film that is well conceived, written and performed (is that the right order?).  With most films, I feel myself drifting away and sometimes lose what is going on.  With this piece, I was (and still am) riveted from start to finish."Cheer up Brian, you know what they say..."


                
This is a pretty good film although my least favorite of the Monty Python films (in ascending order I like Meaning of Life & Holy Grail better). Chapman does a great portrayal of the mistaken messiah Brian, and the rest of the cast does a great job of ridiculing the messiah crazy ancient times, but it just seems to drag for some reason.  It's a good showcase for the comic skills of the Python troupe as they each portray a few characters. Besides the irreverence which angered the church & sanctimonious people back in the day, the film does bring up some interesting points of hero-worship. And the idea that people want to believe in SOMETHING that carries down through to modern times.


                
Of  the Monty Python movies, "Life of Brian" outshines them all. Well written, well acted, with non-stop satire. Young Brian's attempts to fit into and find meaning in the madness of the world around him (so easy to relate with in these times) is hysterically funny. My favorite scene is when Brian addresses the worshipful crowd beneath his window proclaiming, "You are all Individuals!"  and the crowd answering in unison, "We are all Individuals!"  This  could have come out of a modern diversity training  seminar. This Movie is a "must-have" for all Monty Python  Fans.


                
I've seen this film about 30 times and I still crack up. If ever there was a classic example of genius bordering on madness, then this is it.
Those who condemned it for blasphemy and lack of respect for Jesus are missing the point. What is sent up here is not God, nor Christ, but the ridiculous ways in which humans use spirituality and belief for their own ends, and so deny themselves the very thing they are seeking.The idea is brilliant - a poor Jewish man finds himself by accident following in the footsteps of Christ, and discovering the pitfalls and perils thereof. It's a classic one-step displacement in order to laugh at social and moral stupidities of the past and present. The script is very tight, nothing is overdone or laboured, you're kept chuckling right the way through whilst marvelling at the cleverness of the storytelling.My favourite part was when Brian was writing out his slogan "Romans go Home" and gets caught. Anybody who has sat through Latin classes will groan as the memories of declensions and conjugations come back. Horrible!It's classic Python, the best thing they've ever done and it still is very funny even in 2000. John Cleese is brilliant, so is Terry Jones and Graham Chapman is perfect as the straight man Brian. And of course there's that wonderful song "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life" - sheer genius, horribly covered by Art Garfunkel in "As Good as It Gets". I've seen this too many times to offer a really critical review. I can quote slabs too, unfortunately. If you've never seen it, go down to Blockbuster and hire it out when you're feeling miserable. Guaranteed to get you smiling.


                
I have to say that I am a huge fan of John Cleese. I have watched Fawlty Towers many times and bust my gut every time I see it.That said, he is not the prime reason I watched this film. I was drawn to the fact that it is considered one of the most, if not the most controversial film of all time. John Cleese was just icing on the cake.The laughs come fast and furious in this film. This is the biggest collection of nitwits I have ever seen, and the spacemen in the middle was totally unexpected! The laughs never stop in this comedy. I don't know why it is considered sacrilegious as there were a lot of prophets at the time, and there was no real mention of the other guy. Some people just need to lighten up and enjoy a parody that never really steps over the line.


                
The Pythons are back with 'Life of Brian'. This time they adapt the bible. This might be offensive to the religious but I thought it was hilarious and a clever poke at fanatics but even though some of the jokes are hysterical, many happen to be a little too crude and vulgar for some people. But, then again, that's the Pythons for you. 'Life of Brian' tells one linear story unlike 'The Meaning of Life' which featured a series of sketches showing the different 'stages of life'. It's not about Jesus, but a humble neighbour of his who's been mistaken for a messiah. Even after poor Brian's constant denials and refusals he is forced to be seen as a messiah and treated as one and this is a result of the people's blind faith. The only reason that I can think of why people of religious faith will find this offensive is because they lack a sense of humour.


                
