I will be really short on this one. New TV series isn't as good as people say. One of arguments is "It is slow, but you need to hold until .. " until like episode 3. I mean you are not really doing good job if you need wait until to episode 3 to be hooked up. I think TV series isn't doing good job at anything it is more like we are doing "okey" job on loads of stuff but not really amazing or anything close to rating of "9". What I mean is, this show isn't too smart at least first episodes doesn't show that, it isn't action filled, so you don't do great job on making show smart and don't compensate it with action. For example "Hannibal" do much better job on showing how you try to think as psychopath. Main lead is...I'm not saying a wimp but....yeah. First episode is just filled with awkwardness. To be fair I think this show doesn't really deserves such a high ratings. It isn't the worst, but it isn't amazingly good at anything. It just hard to watch main lead.


                
Other reviewers who mentioned that Mindhunter is like 2 different shows have it right. You've got the bingeworthy and the cringeworthy. The part dealing with interviewing serial killers and solving local crimes is quite good. The part that tries to delve into the characters home life and relationships slows the show's momentum and is actually hard to watch at times. Luckily, the relationship parts make up only about 20-25% of the show. Set design and cinematography are top notch. Soundtrack is hit and miss, but there are some great selections, like the Led Zeppelin in the last episode, that are powerful. All of it seems tailored to appeal to late Boomers/early Gen-Xers who grew up in the 70s. That's me, and I really enjoyed the cars, clothes, mise en scene, and the color pallet.Dialogue can be too on-the-nose and explanatory sometimes. The writers should give the audience more credit. The interview scenes are compelling, though. They are the core of the show, and I wanted more of them.80% x 8.4 rating for the police work parts. 20% x 4.4 rating for the relationship parts = 7.6 overall rating. In toto, it was a good first season, and I'm looking forward to see where it goes from here.


                
Warning..possible spoiler..The "random" guy they keep showing at the beginning, in Park City,and Wichita,Ks, is meant to be Denis Rader, better known as BTK(Bind, Torture, Kill). BTK terrorized my hometown of Wichita for nearly 30 years. All the scenes they portray, are things he actually did. He is the ultimate study in criminal psychology as far as serial killers go, IMO, as he led a dual life(husband, father, scout leader, church deacon), taunted the police & media with puzzles & cryptic messages like Zodiac,then disappeared for more than a decade and resurfaced in the early 2000's when he resumed his conversation with the police. He is a sick, fascinating study and I wonder where this series is headed in relationship to his story.
The show itself is not about catching some killer it is about how profiling of serial killers came to be.That peaked my interest as this has not really been the topic of a TV show. But at the same time I wonder if this can carry a show alone over multiple seasons.Naturally this is a slow burner, well acted, well written dialogue and overall good production quality. It's not amateur writing hour as so often with many new shows in the past two years, especially on Netflix.At the point of writing I am two episodes in and still intrigued by the show: What will be the result of the protagonist's journey into understanding the psychology of serial killers? Will be be part of the process and will the process entertain me over the run of season.The novelty may wear off quickly in a few more episodes if it doesn't lead somewhere. That might be the show biggest problem. But I cannot finally decide yet.The question remains: will it be enough for a season to keep me interested?I expect the protagonist will help to catch some serial killer as he learns more about the psychology of these murders. And we see how profiling came to be. Probably as a subplot, including failure a well. This could work out pretty well.If you are in for such a kind of show maybe give it a try. You mind find yourself being intrigued by the show as I did. But if you want some "Catch that Killer" kind of thing, then this is nothing for you.I rate this 7 out of 10 after the first two episodes..


                
Two dudes team to solve murders in the 70s, classic buddy flick with the twist of using psych profiling that they used until they found out it didn't work.
The guys work well togther- older/younger....tough guy/"sensitive" chemistry plays well. Most of the acting is good and the settings are fairly accurate for the 70s with a few anachronisms thrown in. One of the few flys in the ointment is the chick whats plays the psych reasearcher-Anna Torv, has got a real attitude on er.... She and her girlfriend think they are the only two around with any brians, with their psuedo science degrees and all. Put either one in a real science class and it would smoke their dendrites.
Each episode is different and new, and unfolds in a 90 percent realistic looking , 10 percent PC today's world themes thrown in.
Too bad the psych profiling doesn't work. It's always the "lone wolf" theory , until the BTK killer shows up and his ilk: wife, kids and boyscout troup leader certs in tow; But if you suspend reality you can entertain yourself for a while.
It is a bit preatchy with implications that they can predict future behavior with psych hokus-pokus. We probably (maybe?) protect more children today (although most r still molested by family) but on the other hand we now have a crucial shortage of men willing to teach school. Are we better off in our more "enlightened " state?


                
After all those cop and FBI shows (not to forget all the CSI stuff) finally one show with an unique and interesting concept/approach. 
An interesting story, cut short I would call it the beginning of profiling murderers, including interesting characters (all those wacko serial killers) + a very good production and acting make Mindhunter a well entertaining show - without gun- or fistfights.Maybe not outstanding but good and Mindhunter is certainly an unique one in the field of crime shows - recommended.


                
Plot is interesting and has potential but the acting is weak and the musical score playing over the dialog is annoying. I'm on the second episode trying to give it a chance. It's rated so highly, I must be missing something. I know it takes place in 1977 but were the FBI agents this naive? So far, all I can give it is a 6/10. Hope I can improve my rating later.
Good show. Slow but interesting. I did notice one thing. David Fincher has a thing for bathroom conversation. He loves framing a shot of one person taking a bath while having a deep conversation while the other person is brushing their teeth. Just something I noticed. Im 8 episodes in and I think this show has some potential to really be something. Hope they get deeper into the serial killers mind. Since you know its called Mind hunter.


                
So I was stumbling around, wondering what new series to get on board with and I decided to jump on the Mindhunter train.At first I found it enthralling. I loved the intelligence of the shows and it's main characters, showing their groundbreaking work in how they looked and studied crime. But then mid way through, they took on board the female psychologist who then took on this leader role, which jarred with me, given how I'd come onboard with the two trendsetters at the beginning.From offering the enticing premise of these guys moving around the country understanding the minds of these criminal deviants, I felt this undercurrent that the makers suddenly realised they needed more females in the show, along with a need to 'pad things out' to keep the party going.From being fascinated with the two main guys, we seemed to get to a situation where the woman was the head of the team, having to exert her dominance and lecturing the main guy about the best way to interact with unpleasant characters - shock horror, he used a nasty word to elicit information. Give me a break you cossetted wallflower.Maybe it's foolish to say that I was put off by one single character but she just felt totally unnecessary and evoked a feeling that made me not want to watch the show because I didn't enjoy her presiding over the underlings with barely concealed contempt.Great premise and initially well executed but I don't think I'll return for the second season.
This is a well produced show about how some investigators during the 1970s began to find ways to make psychological profiles of criminals. How they are entering new territory and need to also fight an internal war among their bosses and organisation to get approval to work further in this (at that time) mumbo-jumbo area of expertise.There are some interesting encounters with interviewing convicted criminals in prison in this project. Still the show doesn't stand out or has anything special except a professional production about an interesting topic in the evolution of CSI. I lack an intriguing storyline, complexity and anything special. Now it is just another well produced show among many others.I there is a season two I am not sure I will spend time on it.


                
It's an interesting concept built around the introduction of psychological profiling to the FBI, similar to that of Netflix's Unabomber show (which brought me onto this). It follows a narrative of the struggle against the reluctance of new methods to criminal cases. This itself is very interesting to follow. What's more, some of the criminal characters which they interview throughout the series are brilliant. They're entertainingly psychotic and very well written. However, the two main characters are frustrating to watch. Holden is so unnecessarily socially awkward, it becomes cringe worthy to watch at times. And Bill is so cliché that I had to skip a few of his personal character development scenes out of boredom due to unoriginality. My suspicions of lazy writing were confirmed after watching one interview scene, which I'm surprised hasn't produced a law suit from the true detective writers due to plaigerism. Saying this, it's more about what the main characters are doing rather than who they are. And the criminal charters make up for the shortfalls of the two lead characters and so enjoyable to watch nonetheless.


                
If you like Fincher's work, especially Zodiac, Panic Room and the first season of House of Cards then this is for you. This is mostly about the dialogue, so if you're expecting flashy action and a fast-paced plot then you're mistaken when watching Mindhunter (which is probably not the best title for this new Netflix series). SEQUENTIAL would've been a better title for this. In the end the title is not important. I just read that this is modeled after a murder book and that the 3 main characters (Groff, McCallany & Torv) are/were real people, working for the FBI in the exact same capacities.Jonathan Groff is a fine young actor, but his acting seems one-dimensional at times. I'm sure I've watched a couple of movies and series he was in, but I can't recall any from the top of my head. Self-explanatory. Hannah Gross is not that bad, even though she seems dead inside most of the time. I don't know if these characters are supposed to be lifeless in a way or is it just bad acting. I cannot decide. Anyways, I liked seeing McCallany and Torv again. McCallany's character is definitely a nice addition to the story. Torv is playing a highly educated and essential part of the team, who is also a lesbian (unnecessary). Why in recent years do shows have to have gay or lesbian supporting characters? Why does she have to be lesbian? Is it to show that lesbian's can be smart too? Of course they can, but is it really necessary to show it time and time again on TV?An average 9.0 rating is way too high. I hope most of you get that because this isn't nearly as good as House of Cards (first season). Overall, the acting doesn't quite cut it. I'm sure season two will be better. 7.4/10
You need to get past the slow and often disjointed episodes 1 & 2 before you get hooked on this series. Acting and directing are good, and the story line moves from unusual to interesting. A sometimes predictable story line, but with very interesting characters. Hope there is a season 2!


                
This is an interesting series about an FBI agent who is starting to profile 'serial killers' for the first time. It's wel produced and well acted. Especially the scenes with the serial killer interviews are exciting and add ''Hannibal'' feel to the show. I binged season 1 in one night.


                
Overall an interesting take on how the FBI developed its behavioral analysis theories. Basically it tries to tell the story of a young upstart who wants to bring psychology and behavior into criminal identification with the ultimate goal of helping society by using the analysis to preemptively stop bad behavior before it escalates. This is not a new idea and certainly the ideas have been around through most of human history but it is still fun to watch the antics that take place within the FBI itself as they scramble to find their identity in light of new research. Its like watching the 3 stooges learn a new act. The show has a serious tone, but at times, its hilarious to see how the 4 stooges play off each other (the young guy, his partner, the lady, and the director).Some of it is pure garbage for example, the over-the-top alpha-male attitudes displayed by the FBI workers is silly. Clearly its meant to force drama and paint the open minded protagonist and his lesbian coworker as forward thinkers. They aren't. They are not too bright either with the way they handle interviews or make decisions. The entire story arch with the principal was laughable and the end with the wife whining would have met with much harsher words if it actually went down the way it did. Also, many of the interview enactments were not convincing.Still a good show overall.


                
Mindhunter felt clichéd as a pitch - there have been so many 'criminal minds' type shows after Silence of the Lambs, of which perhaps 'Hannibal' is one of the most intelligent. Even the name of John Douglas' book sounds sensationalist. Having read the book though, and others like it from the same team at Quantico, and this being a David Fincher project - I was eager to see it. Unfortunately, it suffers from that 'unreality' style of forced story-telling, where everyone seems like a self-conscious actor reading overly thoughtful lines (something I've noticed plagues a lot of modern TV). Style rules over substance. The substance meanwhile steers well away from the content of the book - there is precious little here about actual serial killers, their MO's, how patterns came to be recognised and eventual profiles drawn. Its hinted at, but eschewed in favour of character contrivances, office quibbles about ethics and showy set-pieces when interviewing serial killers. By the end, the trajectory the story has taken feels very underwhelming and flat. Ordinarily that would be par-for-the-course for this kind of show, but in the context of what IS an extremely fascinating true story, it really could and should have been better. I got the distinct feeling I was watching an idea that was written for the sake of padding out a mini-series, rather than a story that was worth being told. I'm being generous on my rating here purely because of the attention to style, and some good direction.


                
First, the good stuff: Cameron Britton's character is perhaps the most convincing (the best I know of, at least) psychopath in television crime series; it makes Dexter a caricature, and Mikkelsen's Lecter stripped by any sense of realism; his resemblance to Kemper is shocking; his face expression, calm and deceiving voice, his reassuring teddy bear presence — don't, for a second, hide the cold hearted butcher inside. He doesn't have, nor needed IMO, more screen time than the half an hour he has, to convince you that he's a smart creature, well aware that he's "suffering" from psychopathy. I'm not regretting watching this show, I just wish to have known that watching first two and the last couple of episodes are more than enough to get all the essential stuff; the last episode, as the ratings here at IMDb speak themselves, is an unexpectedly good ending. I'm not encouraging anyone to skip any episode, of course, but if I was to know about the series mediocre case which ends in the seventh episode, I would have definitely left it outside. The good stuff is beyond it, and erasing that whole preceding part, doesn't affect the main plot in any way. These first and last couple of episodes coincidentally (or maybe incidentally?) are directed by Fincher, and maybe the material is much better at these poles (I think it really is), or the ability of the Fight Club maestro changes a not-so-great script in something better (he use to make every script, important lines and scenes, better in every project he's involved in, as far as I know), but the result is, with the exception of the pilot, good and, each and there, even better.And the criticism (for the majority of the pilot and especially for the episodes 3-8; the subjectivity is implied):In my opinion, the pilot is a mess; too many arbitrary facts are trying to make a starting point and to set a course; the acting is below average, a lot of talk with little expressivity, but hey! Luther suffered from this too, Elba needed the entire pilot to get into his character' shoes, and same goes to Person of Interest, I've almost stopped watching because the cast was just playing horrible, but it started to look decent in the fifth episode, and by the end of the first season, everyone involved started to play really good; so I've thought it should be the case here too, actors will find the good way after a while... but with the exception of the rare and brilliant apparitions of Britton (and his small part is by far the best so far in his career), plus McCallany character played above average in the entire season, there's little to talk about. Groff just doesn't seems to be fit for his part, he just stays there, a good looking blank guy, all the time; he's a star not an actor, and in a crime series, a star with no (at least) charisma is a no-no to be;(just a small parenthesis - if this is great acting, then where are the bad actors? If you're going to search about every guy appearing in a movie, any American movie, you'll find out that he's such a great actor, he works a lot for his part, etc etc so there's no room for bad actors in Hollywood; this dude makes no difference, he's such a (short) playboy so of course he has to be a great actor too, right? Maybe if more people will going to find out about Hiroshi Abe, Alexandr kaydanovskiy, Max von Sydow (especially the one from his early work with Bergman), and so many other perfectionists by this kind, they'll start to see the difference between just some nice looking guys and below-average, small actors? I surely hope so)you just can't really care about his fate, maybe he's too a psychopath, maybe he'll choose the serial killer path, but he just doesn't convince you about it; it makes you feel like you watch a "Cold Case" episode all over again. The music isn't great, just atmospheric accords, many times in scenes where isn't enough tension to justify it; the screenplay is slim, the characters are mostly underdeveloped, which makes you care little to anyone involved here; Gross' character doesn't bring absolutely nothing to the story, and the sex scenes, come on, we're not in the 90' anymore to care about this stuff. The guest "stars", well there's nothing stellar about most of them; some of them are like taken by the streets and put to read their part in one take; the main case, that sucks so many episodes, looks like could fit in maximum one hour. Also, the camera movement isn't great, OK, they don't have Tarkovski behind the camera, but still, there's not a single "poetic" take in this series. On the other hand, overall the directors are doing a decent job, considering the weak and perhaps unfinished script they had to work with, while the editing is blunt and monotonous.Well, that's it; hopefully the next season will address many of these complains, because after the last episode, it's impossible to not crave for more, if the standards will be kept as high as in that one. Peace Out!
I don't really want to say anything about the show, the writing is very pretentious and the story moves along at a slow pace (granted, I do not mind it) but otherwise it is a good show, I mean you'll watch it and like it.. probably?


                
