For those of you who came here looking for something like 'Se7en', because you thought, well, it's from David Fincher and it's about serial killers, I have bad news: this is not that kind of show. But if you came here looking for something more like 'Zodiac', because you thought, well, it's Fincher producing a show about people investigating serial killers, you might indeed find something you like. And if you appreciate long-form storytelling focusing more on human drama than on action scenes, AND you're a bit of a science nerd on top of that (and by that I'm also implying you don't mind watching a show where people are talking most of the time), then, my friend, you are in for a treat.The reason I absolutely love 'Mindhunter' is this: I'm the kind of person who always wants to know why we know what we know. Because we DIDN'T always know. Somebody had to make a start; someone had to make that first step, that first discovery and draw that first conclusion. Somebody had to be curious, probably persistent, maybe even daring in their quest for knowledge. The history of science is littered with warriors, some of whom we now celebrate and hold in high esteem - but we have a tendency to forget that many scientists also were tragic figures who had to fight against restrictions imposed by society and risked paying a high price - professionally and personally - for their fight against ignorance. And it's those aspects of science that I find so fascinating, and it's precisely those aspects that 'Mindhunter' is interested in; not the "showy", glamorous stuff, but the meticulous groundwork and the personal human drama inherent in the quest for knowledge. And if you, like me, have a morbid curiosity for all the darker aspects of human nature, it surely doesn't hurt that the particular branch of science whose origins this show explores is that of criminal psychology: the science which tries to understand how the minds of criminals work and what causes them to commit their crimes.As you might have guessed, 'Mindhunter' isn't concerned with shoplifters or what goes on inside the head of someone who commits insurance fraud, but rather with criminals whose behavior is a tad more serious (like, you know, murderers who have a penchant for engaging in sexual activities with their victims' severed heads - stuff like that). And it isn't a documentary either; although the characters are based on real people and the show offers a realistic portrayal of serial killers, this is a dramatized account of events made for our entertainment. And entertaining it is, and on a high artistic level at that: the performances are fantastic; cinematography, editing and direction bear the clear trademark of the master filmmaker who produced and partly directed this (though it must be said that while Fincher appears to be the creative leader, the project was brought to him by one Charlize Theron who owns the rights to the book upon which the show is based and also serves as a producer, and the excellent teleplay was predominantly written by Jennifer Haley and the show's credited creator Joe Penhall).To sum it all up: 'Mindhunter' is a show that takes full advantage of its format; this is long form storytelling as it was meant to be, and while it probably doesn't work for people with short attention spans, the patient viewer is rewarded with a fascinating, richly layered and suspenseful drama exploring the origins of criminal psychology and criminal profiling. Excellent stuff: 8 stars out of 10.Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: imdb.com/list/ls075552387/Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: imdb.com/list/ls054808375/


                
The few people here who are rating this a 1,2 or a 3 have no clue what makes a TV show. They also have no clue what actual acting is. No this show is not one of those shows where a serial killer is shown stabbing their victim to death. We dont see the cops chasing down the bad guys and saving the day. What we see is some amazing acting from some beyond amazing actors, giving us the stories of these true crimes. So if at all you're interested in these type of true crimes dont listen to these people giving low ratings who do not have any idea what they're talking about. This show is worth watching.


                
I'm spoiled for good quality TV shows that are intriguing and make me think while entertaining along the way. So many shows I watch the first episode and can't even get through it because its so predictable or cookie cutter. I'm excited I've found a new one to enjoy. And even though it is set in the 70s, its very relevant for today. Crazy takes on many forms. Back then it was "sequence killers" prior to term "serial killer" being used. Today its crazy mass shooters. I love Ford's desire to learn. I've watched 2 episodes and looking forward to the rest. And BTW the soundtrack is amazing!


                
Very different from the all too common, formula based law enforcement shows.Unique perspectives from the writers and creators.Given the status some of the executive producers and David Fincher can bring to a project, they seem to encourage many talented people into creating multiple episode drama rather than some 2 hour action flick.Here many scenes that involve character development are included rather than be set aside for more action sequences or truncated for time considerations.I am very glad that many very talented film makers are embracing the mini-series or even better, ten episode story arc.


                
My Rating : 8/10Just here to say how amazing 'Mindhunter' is. There's so much content to choose from nowadays and it's often confusing for any viewer what to pick next. 'Mindhunter' is perhaps one of those shows that will appeal to viewers of a certain type of content in cinema - those who liked Zodiac or Se7en perhaps and want to delve deeper.MINDHUNTER = CRIMINAL PSYCHOLOGY DRAMA 101.


                
Going to be completely honest I binged this show and finished the season already and I really loved it except for some things that bothered me throughout the series, but I couldn't stop watching! However this show stands out because it's different it's a whole new perspective on this genre which is why this show would be more memorable then say, True Detective. Perhaps it's because criminal psychology fascinates me. The fact that it takes place in the 70s makes it seem more authentic like this actually could be a true story. Spoilers: considering how short the series is, the part about bills kid Brian not talking and communicating I feel like they could've gone deeper into or not included it at all. I would've liked to know more about Brian. And above all I especially would've loved to know more about Holden and Bills past. Holden seemed strange at sometimes like he was either over analyzing everything even in his personal life with his girlfriend or he was a little bit of a sociopath or narcissist himself. And Bill just looked guilty sometimes like his facial expressions seemed like he was up to no good. I feel the part about Wendy being a lesbian was pointless and had no impact on the show. And the season needed to be longer, the last episode did nothing really. The end with Holden was just odd. I'm not sure if this is a mini series but there def needs to be another season! . Like I said it has it's flaws as every show does, but I couldn't stop watching!! It's a show you will either love or hate. For me I loved it and say it's worth the watch
"Mindhunter" tells the semi-fictionalised story of how two FBI agents, curious about the motivations and psychology behind serial killers, begin to interview them. Their initial success leads to the establishment of the behavioural crimes division. Despite some successes applying what they learn to active cases, their controversial techniques begin to attract the attention of both the press and internal affairs. It should first be said that "Mindhunter" is not a police procedural show, they don't catch a new killer every week based on the insights of their interviewees, though they do, across the course of the show, learn how to deploy their techniques to help bring some murderers to justice. It's a slow moving adult drama about the effects that success, distance and exposure to the worst mankind has to offer can have on people and their relationships. Central to the story is Jonathan Groff's performance as Holden Ford. A young, bored, supporting agent that firmly believes that the FBI's tenants of means, motive and opportunity are no longer capable of explaining the reasons for some of the more horrific crimes the agency is asked to deal with. The series is really the telling of his rise, from the student eager for justification of his early ideas to the arrogance of a man convinced that he is always right and that astuteness justifies bending the laws to get a conviction. Groff plays all this brilliantly, so much so you really shift your opinion of the initially likable character across the course of the season. He's ably supported by Holt McCallany, finally shifting into a meatier role befitting his talent as senior agent, Bill Tench. As tremendous as it is that it's not that horrible repetitive police procedural show that is so often churned out, it's not totally without flaws. As a season arc, it doesn't build towards much of a climax. I try to write spoiler free reviews, so I'll just say that they must have been pretty confident of renewal as a layered in subplot involving a travelling salesman doesn't reach a conclusion that it might have been pointing towards. There's a tendency to give big name producers too much credit, when shows live or die via writers and showrunners, but there are some big David Fincher fingerprints all over "Mindhunter" and he directs several episodes. Fans of his previous work, particularly "Zodiac" are not likely to be disappointed.


                
Stick with it at the start as it's gets better and better. Great characters, solid acting and script. Well worth a watch and it's 8/10 rating. <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
Yes this series is about serial killers. But unlike your slick Hollywood shocker movie. This series breaks down the revelations and discoveries as these budding profilers learn more and more. Obvi if you're very familiar with serial killers from the 70/80's these cases are familiar to you. I love it. Its exactly how I manage it would all go down. A conversation. Just let a man speak. Down the nitty-gritty of their lives. And comparing notes, drawing conclusions. Its not about giving monsters a voice, its understanding your enemy. And in this case our enemy is just plain, evil. Series is well written, performed and its the 70'sss baby Yassss. 8/10


                
I really enjoyed this show. It is probably not for everyone, but, I imagine the people who do like it really like it. The show is about the origins of criminal profiling. The main characters interview various criminals in an effort to try and understand their motivations. These interviews are by far the best part of the show. I also like the almost buddy cop relationship the main characters have. The love story and family lives they have are not as strong. This doesn't matter much though. It reminds me of True Detective season 1. It is a really cool show and I hope they make a season two.


                
Acting is awesome, even though tobacco companies must have financed the movie given how much Detective Lynch lights up. The slowly developing story of the beginnings of the FBI profiling unit is engaging and keeps the viewers interest. Unfortunately, and without giving anything away, the shows just comes to an abrupt halt in the last episode. Obviously there are plans for at least one more season but the viewer feels cheated, let down, the way the series concluded season one. The tension between the FBI bureaucracy and the desire of the profiling unit to explore its fascinating potential is realistic. Again, there is not yet an attempt to explain the intro to each episode, another let down for the viewer. But all in all, its a great show and clearly has already developed a significant following.


                
Mindhunter" tells the semi-fictionalised story of how two FBI agents, curious about the motivations and psychology behind serial killers, begin to interview them. Their initial success leads to the establishment of the behavioural crimes division. Despite some successes applying what they learn to active cases, their controversial techniques begin to attract the attention of both the press and internal affairs.It should first be said that "Mindhunter" is not a police procedural show, they don't catch a new killer every week based on the insights of their interviewees, though they do, across the course of the show, learn how to deploy their techniques to help bring some murderers to justice. It's a slow moving adult drama about the effects that success, distance and exposure to the worst mankind has to offer can have on people and their relationships.Mindhunter distinguishes itself in a crowded genre with ambitiously cinematic visuals and a meticulous attention to character development


                
It will grow on you. After first, terrible and awkward episode it was easy to dismissed this show as a completely pointless. However, I strongly recommend to give it a shot and watch also the second episode with Ed Kemper. If you are interested in the subject, this is a must watch, and if you aren't, you could still invest your time worse than by watching it.


                
This is great show very interesting and a good lesson on how the FBI has grown


                
How can we anticpate the crazy if we dont know how they think?
This is true story based on FBI science unit officers Holden Ford and Bill Tench guided by psychology expert Anna Torv to interview the serial killers about their provocation and feelings..
P.s- This is Netflix based must watch series for crime lovers.


                
Overall an interesting, intelligent series with a disappointing 'ending.' This show struggles with its identity. Is it a cop show? Is it a thriller? Is it a drama? Is it an intellectual procedural? Is it 'based on a true story?'.
Very interested to see where this goes. The second season must be more definitive, then we can accept this first season as being the set up, background, lead up to something really strong.


                
I read John Douglas's books years ago and was thrilled to learn about this series. If I could go back in time and choose a different career, it would have been a behavioral profiler. Cameron Britton's performance as the serial killer Ed Kemper is especially chilling.


                
I was very impressed with the acting of all the characters. David Fincher proved again how great a director he is.... I was attracted to the drama since it's based on the FBI's profiler, John Douglas, even though the names have been changed in the series. I can't wait for season 2.


                
I was hooked on the idea of this show as soon as I saw the trailer. I binged and watched the season in a day. The first few episodes were bland with a lot of lose ends in my opinion. However with each episode the characters and the story became stronger. I like where this going its not your typical crime story. Its like the pre-Criminal Minds. I highly recommend it.


                
This is the turning point for forensic science police investigation. With a lot of shows a dime a dozen which has turned many of the casual viewers into a bunch of wannabe smartalecks thinking they know whodunits , Mindhunter is the exception. As the setting is in the bygone era of landline phones, dark green suits, 12 cylinder cars, it is a captivating , retrospective storytelling. Detailed yes but not boring as it has successfully captured how it must have been done by a serial killer and the tedious task of the police to try and understand the motive while beginning from scratch.Highly recommendable.


                
I'm only 3 episodes into the show as of writing this review and I've got to say, I don't understand the hate it's getting. I've been a fan of Fincher ever since I watched Se7en a couple years ago and I've got this gut feeling that when I'm finished with Mindhunter I'll consider it one of his best. Stylistically it feels like a culmination of all his previous works, bits of Seven, Gone Girl, Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and even parts of the Social Network as well as the most obvious Zodiak. I've also seen a lot of people saying that the show is boring and that's it's badly written and acted and I can understand this not being for everyone because it is on the slow side but I can't understand how people can say it's badly written or acted. The acting is above average, superb in some instances and the writing is some of the best I've seen in TV in recent years, masterfully incorporating subtle humour and human interactions in with its very inhuman and thoughtful look into the mind of a killer. At the end of the day if you're interested in the subject matter and want a show that'll get into your head and make you think I'd highly recommend checking this out.


                
Just finished watching all the first season episodes in a couple of days and here's my take. Despite a slow start with the first two episodes there was just enough to hook me. Am a fan of Anna Torv so was determined to see what her character could bring to the story starting in the third episode. Her character did add to the story even though given little time in the episodes. The actor playing the lead character Holden Ford doesn't impress and is barely tolerable along with the actress playing his girlfriend. They are not written to be very likable and they effortlessly did a good job with displaying that. The actor playing co-lead FBI agent Bill Tench ( Holt McCallany ) does an impressive job as do most of the supporting cast. The period of the late 1970's is represented in great attention to detail in the use of vintage vehicles in a lot of variety as well as location details and interior and exterior set design. This detail lends one to appreciate the effort put into this series and the well written characters, good and bad. Looking forward to more of this series for sure.


                
It was a great show that may have stated slow but fast got some drive. I love true crime, I love psychological stories and I love a great detective story. This show had all of this which made it the right thing for me. It works so well because most of what goes on actually happens in your head. This is why we could easily compare it to a psychological thriller like "The Silence of the Lambs". The episodes directed by David Fincher were the best directed ones when it comes to style and love for detail. The episodes directed by Andrew Douglas,, Asif Kapadia and Tobias Lindholm were among the most interested and twisted ones. Acting wise it was a mixed bag. Generally well acted but I found the leading performance of Jonathan Groff too stiff for its own good. Sure it was supposed to be a stiff character but I found him very boring and uncharismatic. The complete opposite was Holt McCallany who gave easily the best performance of the show. I also loved Anna Torv who had a great character to work with. Hannah Gross was fine but sometimes tried too hard. I loved the performance of Cameron Britton who was intense and absolutely believable. It is a perfect show to binge watch because you just canst stop once your entered this dark world. I really look forward to the next season as I think they will enter even deeper into the psychology. Very disturbing but never fails to be interesting. Some episodes were too slow but I guess that was needed for the character development.


                
Netflix's new crime drama explores the origin of the term "serial killer" as it explores the development of behavioral science at the FBI. Holden Ford (Jonathan Goff) is a hostage negotiator that has had a bad run of luck understanding these new types of crimes without a clear motive. A conversation with an expert gives him interesting ideas and when he meets a graduate student Debbie Mitford (Hannah Gross). She opens his mind to new sociological questions that pushes him to new methods of teaching. Unit Chief Shepard (Cotter Smith) is skeptical of this new take but allows him to start taking classes at the nearby university. The first episodes are a bit slow as David Fincher directs the first two and definitely leaves his imprint on the series but the series picks up as the main conceit begins to play out.Holden is recruited by Bill Tench (Holt McCallany) to be a part of the behavioral science division. Bill teaches local law enforcement techniques of the FBI and consults on unique cases of a brutal nature. Holden uses his FBI credentials to gain access to Edmund Kemper (Cameron Britton) who is willing to discuss his vicious murders. Shepard discourages this approach to violent criminals but Holden believes the information could help them stop these murders in the future. The study expands as they recruit academic Wendy Carr (Anna Torv) to help them turn the interviews into something more scientific. Wendy pushes for more interviews and a focus on the data while the two agents work to solve cases in all the places they visit to teach police and learn from killers. They begin to classify the different types of criminals and come up with a language of which to speak about the deranged personalities. They received funding from the Justice Department that makes their progress more legitimate.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Mindhunter isn't a by the numbers crime show. It plows some edgy ground at times exposing the far less glossy and "germey' under-belly of the F.B.I. In particular the F.B.I.'s Behavior Science Unit at it's less than spectacular birth. This was a unit the bureau really didn't want yet felt backed in to mainly due to the proliferation of crimes without logical motives. If invention flows from need then I guess a certain type of criminal birthed the whole idea of behavior science. This is the space where Mindhunter lives. Within that space is a lot of bizarre baggage: often horrific passive aggressive acts play out repeatedly. Throw in some pycho and sociopathic mental breaks and plain old deviant behavior and there's quite a bit going on making definitive standards hard to nail down. But science is about finding the relationship between cause and effect and being able to withstand, over time, similar outcomes. There must be some unwavering common elements bridging seemingly senseless murders. By the outrageous new idea of interviewing murderers and rapists The F.B.I.'s behavior scientists are both pariahs and breaking ground that will become new paradigms. It's a messy business that most law enforcement are opposed to. The bottom line is if the stuff uncovers hard science which may help catch otherwise elusive perpetrators. This is what is mesmerizing to watch. In between we are reminded our groundbreaking agents are human themselves. In fact they have to forge a bit of friendly, very humanistic, bond with these stone cold killers which is often uncomfortable yet totally illuminating. It's this intersection of the worst of humanity and the thing that makes us care because we are inherently good humans who want to stop these crimes that Mindhunters captures quite well. It's hard to tell if this is totally straightly told or glamorized for Hollywood sort of speak. I'm going with the story told pretty straight up for the most part. These F.B.I. guys were on to something big that drove them forward. Today, approximately 40-years later, we know this was the right path breaking important ground. I think Mindhunter tells a very possible path in this journey and is quite interesting as a result. I like good crime shows that feel totally real, Mindhunter feels real.
