I hate it when people give reviews or ratings after half-assed watching just 2 or 3 episodes. Yes, Mindhunter is a slow burner and yes, it's not fast-paced or exciting. If you want that, go somewhere else. Mindhunter is a 'thinking piece' of work where you have to watch and see where it goes while having your mind whirring and contemplating the difficult questions the show poses. Why are serial killers so fascinating to us? The Ed Kemper in the show was just riveting, as were the other serial killers they interviewed. The main characters pose interesting questions and are complex individuals, and towards the end of the series this poses conflict. Also, who is that random dude they keep showing at the start of some episodes? I have a feeling it's a serial killer they will face off with in the second season or something.10/10 would recommend to anyone who likes more subtle shows, and likes having their minds peeled apart.
Two episodes in and I'm already hooked. Technically speaking, this series is very good (it's directed by David Fincher, of course it's good) and it stays true (so far) to the real-life crimes it was based on. I can't say the same for the characters, and how close they are to the people who really did this work, but considering their names are different and the book they adapted wasn't some sort of biography, most of their personal (love) lives must be fictitious or at least overtly dramatized.You see, this series here isn't some kind of good cop, bad cop chase villains and shoot and explode a lot of stuff and at the end of the day (or episode) they go back to their wives and sleep like babies. No. There are way too many series like that, so search elsewhere if that's what you want, because you won't find that here.Mindhunter is slow. Very slow. At first it might look like an simple thriller but actually it tells the story of two FBI agents in their pursuit to, as very precisely said by Holt McCallany's character, "understand how crazy thinks". But that doesn't come easily. Crazy is crazy. You gotta be crazy to understand crazy. But that doesn't stop naïve Holden Ford from interviewing the most despicable real-life psychopaths alive in America in the late 70's to develop the ideas that will become the tenets of the criminal profiling system.As I said before, Mindhunter is directed by David Fincher, and as expected from his work, it's impeccable, both pacing and cinematography are top-notch. At the end of the episode you will be like "wait, that's it?" as the credits roll and the song keeps playing like the story is still going on. And somehow you are watching the next episode.Writing and dialogue are great too. All very natural and haunting. Damn psychos could very much be the real ones. And that gets me to the acting, from what I've seen there's enough to say it's fantastic. The characters are brought to life by the actors. Also, the chemistry between characters Holden Ford and Bill Tench is incredibly real and sometimes, even through the bleakness of their work's nature, hilarious.To finish off, I'll just say the biggest review cliché: Mindhunter is not for everyone. I know you know everyone says it, but it's truer in this case. If my review and the trailer got your attention, you gotta watch it. If it didn't, you'll probably hate Mindhunter. That's how it goes.


                
I almost gave up on this around the 2 episode. Something told me to hang in there, and I'l glad I did. If you're fascinated by the psychology and methodology of a serial killer, you should watch the entire series. It does start off slow, but well worth the wait. When it comes to "Mind Hunter," patience is a virtue!


                
Loved the feel of this new series. Intelligent and slow burning. Totally absorbing. I thought the two main characters were very well observed and portrayed. They fit well together and are a partnership that will stand the test of time, in my opinion. The period is well represented with excellently placed contemporary music.


                
I love it. It's such a new concept, such a thrilling new approach to crime/investigative type of content. I am three episodes in so far, and I am hooked. I was hooked after the first episode. Ed Kemper is such a fascinating character. There are times when he is talking and I am just stunned... I crave to listen to him. I understand Ford so well... I understand his drive to listen to these guys. I feel his compassion for Kemper and I really think he genuinely seems to be becoming his friend. Tench is a great addition to Ford, almost as if his better half in this journey to communicate with 'sequence killers' (the show takes place in a time that had not yet identified the concept of 'serial killers'), to try and figure out other such killers and maybe stop them before they act.I am yearning to find out what's ahead. Fincher, much like House of Cards, helmed the first two episodes, set the tone, and left it. Whatever he sets his hands on turns into gold. The perfect choice of a director for something such.I can't wait for Holden and Bill to speak to other 'sequence' killers. I can't wait to meet Miller, Manson... and any other crazy lunatic psychopath rotting in jail... I can't wait to know and understand them.
I read the book by John Douglas (who consults to the show) some years ago...twice. Every now and then I get a memory or part of the book come back to me. This is very close to how I'd imagine the book made into a series - not a movie would look. For those that want a nicely tied up story each episode or answers for everything, you won't find it here. The description is only partially right, this is about the development of the unit within the FBI that would eventually concentrate on serial killers and develop profiles for the offenders. For them to do this they had to interview thousands of serial murderers and find out how they clicked, their drivers and motivations. This was new ground with untested theories and often against the FBI's own protocol. So, mistakes were made, lines were over stepped and they didn't always get it right. The two main characters play their parts well, I thought. Often bumbling about, arguing and unsure of what they are doing. I notice some reviewers mistake this for wooden acting and aren't able to like the characters, yet in my mind it works well. You have to remember this is set in the early 70s, so even the title 'serial killer' wasn't coined yet. Instead they called it 'sequence killer'. They were up against old thinking where even the mention of colloquial or slang terms for penis etc. were frowned on by the FBI. It is unfortunate that some of the reviewers have treated this like a typical Hollywood cop or CSI show. Everything has to be laid out for them and they want some clever theorising and a nice tidy ending. Where as the story is in the journey, not the result. Hang in for the long haul, it's well worth it.The only unfortunate piece for me is the lead's name 'Holden Ford'. If you are an Australian or NZer you will understand. Makes me cringe every time his name is said in full. Anna Torv makes a welcome member of the cast and gives it a nice air of sophistication. It's a solid 9 for me.


                
I find the premise of this show fascinating and it is, thankfully, focusing on what I believe to be the most intriguing and most "entertaining" bits and pieces of a serial killers life and actions. If you compere this show with, for example, Criminal Minds, this is a much better show, a much more realistic show. I always liked Criminal Minds, especially the first seasons, because the focus was/is as much on the killer and the psychology of the violent mind as on the people trying to catch the killer. I do however also, somewhat, dislike Criminal Minds because the team do end up in shootings, car chases and are way too much involved in action to give me that realistic feel. This show does not let the main characters shot 25 rounds and break into buildings each episode to catch/kill the "monster" of the week. In other words if you like action, big shot-outs, shaky cams and sexy good looking people hunting down killers this show is not for you. If you however like intelligent TV with great scripts that focuses on chronological psychological analysis and have a sort of moral failure versus mental affliction vibe to it, then this might be for you. If you also like well acted stories that slowly, but surely, move along towards a poignant, but not very action-y goal, then this is definitely for you. This is one of the best TV shows I have ever watched. True it can be a bit too slow at times, even for me, and yes there are a few hick-ups along the way, but in essence this is as good as TV can be. Serial killers can present a public persona that appears to be "good" and also nurture a dark side that allows murderous fantasies free reign. Perhaps because they have painful memories from abuse? Disappointments? Or there has been some humiliation, frustration, or being bullied so they have turned to fantasies to comfort themselves. They might even develop an alternate identity that feels more powerful or provides greater status. How do you, as law enforcement, or as a casual viewer (or member of society) relate to this? Are you to capable? Could you murder women and chop of their heads? If you say no: why not?How do you draw the distinction between "bad", "mad", "evil" and "learned behavior"? If I had "A" and "B" happen to me, would I flip out and start killing people? What is the definition of "evil"? And from the conclusions you draw and the knowledge you have; how do you use this to catch serial killers? These are the questions asked by the show and since it is, loosely, based on reality, it gives you a very unsatisfactorily satisfaction each time you finished watching an episode.I highly recommend this show - but as eluded to above; this is not for everyone. In this season there is only one shot fired, and that happens after 2min of the first episode, so action-addicted people should probably go watch something else.
This probably is the best show about criminology and serial killers ever made.They managed to not linger over gloomy pictures and easy gore. This is a slow paced show but that probably is the only show that is so close to the truth. Yes, they took liberties ( a very specific confrontation was moved from one location ( prison ) to another one ) but in the end, it does pay off. It's all about the characters' journey.I highly recommend "Whoever fights monsters" and "Sexual Homicide: Sexual Homicide: Patterns and Motives" by Robert Ressler ( the inspiration for Bill Tench, great acting from Holt McCallany ). And of course, Mindhunter by John Douglas, on which the show is based on.It is very refreshing to watch a show that doesn't go for the easy shock value. Impressive casting ( Cameron Britton as Ed Kemper ) and great cinematography.Seeing the team looking for new ways of describing what couldn't be described yet is nerve breaking. I can't even fathom how such a show never was shot before. The fact they didn't go for the gory pictures but instead focused on dialogue without tuning down the sexual driven abuse is impressive.They did not shy away from some of the most difficult part of the murderers' psyche. And they did an excellent job regarding characters development.Now... What didn't tick? Anna Torv was great as Pr Wendy Carr. BUT, the show started to show a lot liberal propaganda in the middle of its story. Overly strong female characters, best_of_its_league black character limited by white supremacy, the unnecessary lesbian character...For once, I could get behind the strong female lead. Why? Because otherwise, it would only be about female victims. But, Hollywood, keep your politics out of your shows, because if there is one thing very obvious now, it is that you place personal gain over your "opinions" when it suits you.I can't wait for Season Two... Schaefer, the Sacramento Vampire, BTK, Heirens, Gacy, Dahmer... so many profiles, stories to explore...


                
I love TV shows that take me back to the 70's and 80's era, maybe because that's when i grew up. The events of Mindhunter take place in the 80's, showing how the FBI started implementing other aspects of criminology to their methods in order to solve crimes. The show gets you at the very least hooked from the first episodes. Don't expect to see bloody scenes, this is not your typical psychological horror show. Its all about the plot and dialogues, while the FBI agents try to analyze why serial killers do what they do, and have to convince the system about their new methods to approach crime at the same time.Overall a really good show if you like the kind.


                
Freud once quoted;" Sexuality is Everyone's Weakness – and Strength; fantasy is an Important Factor in Sexual Excitement "I once did a meta-analysis of the criminal mind as a subject for storytelling - to learn and understand what triggers some to do the most horrific brutal acts without even a bit of remorse. I came across a man named John E.Douglas and his book;" Mind Hunter: Inside The FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit ".The book was a unique insight into a world that has no logic, except into the human nature of sex and destruction, and to realize that there are monsters out there in the real world, who will enjoy torturing, raping, killing and mutilating.The book in itself is great, and i recommend anyone to give it a try; but the TV-series, works every angle from psychology, anthropology, sociology, neurology, biology - It doesn't just stop by telling a story, it makes question human nature and society, and our sexual nature in it.I sat for 8 hours watching each episode with a childish curiosity never knowing what was gonna happen, cause there are no rules and boundaries to an impulsive mind.In the end what i think makes this show great; " Its real "


                
Many have noted that this new series approaches crime narrative from a different angle as it attempts to focus less on the crime and more on the process of understanding the criminal. That alone is a compelling approach, and certainly John Douglas, the FBI profiler whose book is the primary source for this series, has provided Fincher and crew with rich material to work with. What I discovered as the series progressed were the different ways in which the show slowly, subtly establishes in classic Fincher style what a fine line there is between monsters and the rest of us. While we hear about the horrors that the killers have perpetrated on their victims, we see the kinds of hurts that "normal" people inflict on each other, especially those closest to them. The one aspect that detracts from this series for me is what seems to be the clichéd struggle between the powers that be and the rule- breaking protagonists. We don't need the artificial tension about whether or not the burgeoning profiling program will be shut town at every turn. The interviews with the killers and the FBI agents' occasional collaboration with local law enforcement to solve difficult cases by using their new techniques provides tension enough.
To be frank, I have been waiting for Netflix to release this title for some time, I had pretty high expectations, given David Fincher is at the helm, and Anna Torv as female lead, I love her from the Fringe days. Spent the last two days binge-watching non-stop ... it was great! The show sets background in the 70's, when psychological profiling and investigation of serial killers were still at their infant stage in law enforcement. Dissatisfied with current inefficiency, two FBI agents teamed up with a college professor started to make headways in this special field. I won't go into details of the storyline, but the overtone of the show strikes great resemblance as other David Fincher films (Gone Girl, Se7en, in particular), it is dark, intense, intriguing, coupled with great performance from both lead and supporting actors, with the storyline gradually unfolding that you feel neither rushed nor tedious. It draws you towards the center of the show and keeps you engaged. If you are already a David Fincher fan, I think you will very much enjoy this show.All in all, I personally like the Mindhunter to be the best crime genre Netflix has put forward so far (granted I haven't watched Ozark yet).


                
Fantastic cast, great storyline and a very interesting psyche into the minds of a serial killer and what triggers their motives to kill, can't wait for season 2, definitely one of of my favourite crime series.


                
First time I got to ep 2 or 3 and turned it off. Why was everyone hyping over this series which was so dry, where nothing ever really happened. Lots of chatter and no action? Dismissed the series and shelved it for over a year. My friend brought it up asking if I watched. I said I'd get back on it. I did turn it back on and, I couldnt turn it off. Binged watch it from episode 4 onwards. Yes there are no actions, no big blow ups, no gorey scenes. But where the horror lies is in reality, everyday representation. Normal people. Normal circumstances. That is the horror in it all. And it's spookier than some knife slicing someone's head off.


                
First two episodes are slow. Especially with the start being so dramatic your expecting something totally different. Brilliantly done! Once this show gets rocking (around the 3rd) it does not stop. Wow!! One of the fastest shows I have ever binge watched. Just finished the last and I want more!!


                
I finish Mindhunter a few days ago and i'm still dazed by how amazing it was (And also, completely obsessed with THAT Led Zepellin song).David Fincher's new series it's an amazing exercise on screen writing, character development and style. Mindhunter may be talking about the most disturbing crimes and as a whole it's really psychologically unnerving but it feels great because it's so gorgeously shot and well directed that you doesn't even care. Also, Mindhunter explore and examine this whole serial- killer culture that is so popular in US but care and trust so much about writing that does that (almost) without violence, not even a punch is seen in the whole series after THAT scene on the first minutes of ep. 1, and well, that's nothing but remarkable. And if you're afraid if the show it's slow, let me tell you that the show it's actually very slow, but if you didn't fall in love with the show after that amazing montage of our protagonists traveling at the sound of "Fly like an eagle" and under Fincher's wonderful direction, you probably shouldn't keep watching it.As a summary I can say that Fincher and the whole team of writers and directors created a ten-episode season of pure tension and 'psychopath after psychopath' they deliver every single episode with a lot of style, great music choices, great acting and overall: Great filmmaking.I can't wait for the 2nd season.
Recommended. 9/10


                
Really interesting show!!! I hope there is a second season! Jonathan Groff is amazing as Holden and this is a show I could watch more than once. I didn't think there would be a cop type show more than True Detective on HBO but I was wrong. There is some nudity but if you watch Game of Thrones then you won't mind this show.


                
It just went to the roots of Serial killers. It describes how a behavioral science unit of FBI tries to understand the psychology of these serial killers. Focusing on stopping the crime, rather than criminal. Not like those other Detective Shows, it's more sensible.It justifies the determination of FBI to eliminate a specified crime by understanding why people do that. Along with some beautiful cinematography and cynical debates about where our society is headed.If that doesn't motivate you, consider this: David Fincher is back on Netflix after House of Cards (first two episode of Netflix, which shaped the current standings of Netflix)


                
Reminds me of such UK shows such as Wire In The Blood, Messiah, Waking The Dead, Cracker, Prime Subject. Very character driven. Yes, some of the acting in early episodes is a little wooden, but it's definitely compulsive viewing. It's definitely head and shoulders above all the traditional cop procedurals that have saturated TV for the past 15 years. Highly recommended and hope season 2 follows a similar style.


                
Mindhunter is one of the best TV shows I've ever seen. Period. With a tone often attempted but seldom achieved, Mindhunter is able to show the beginnings of the FBI's Criminal Profile division in a macabre, beautiful telling. Filled with stellar performance upon stellar performance, brilliant dialogue and fantastic direction thanks in no short order from David Fincher, the man behind some of modern film and television's most twisted and dark arrivals. This series has proven to be a joy to watch from start to finish.Because almost everyone else has said pretty much everything there is to be said, I'll just throw in a word of caution for those wanting to watch; the first episode is a slog and this is not Criminal Minds; 1980s. I feel like some people will be put off by the incredibly weak first episode (I nearly was), and I know several people would prefer the serialized nature of a show such as Criminal Minds and may go in with differing expectations. However, I can firmly say that if you are not put off by a first episode that is genuinely a chore or the idea that this is not the same beast as perhaps the most popular detective show in history then you will find nothing but enjoyment here. Terrifying, emotion filled and exciting, this is a must-see for anyone even slightly a fan of the detective, crime thriller genres.


                
Wow just wow. A slow burner but really gets your attention as show moves on. The dialogues are great. (example: One serial killer when asked, why he killed 18 people in one go. His answer is " It just wasn't their night")I also loved the acting of the leads. Its strange why some people are giving very low rating for this series. Please go ahead and watch by yourselves if you like good TV. I am really looking forward for season two.


                
A smart, and very well written show with bright shining lights into the mind of killers and the agents who work the cases and profile them. I'll admit I wasn't sure if I was going to continue after the first episode, but I'm glad I did.The second episode brought in an interesting serial killer, who's a gentle giant of sorts with tons of character, and every bit of it screams the 70's from the dialect to the mustache! It's these clever details that help make the show hole. There is a great attention to detail in the set, and the 70's comes off very accurate to my old eyes. I'm going to stick with a 9/10 rating because it really sucked me in, and I can't wait for more. Hopefully the writing, acting, and thrill of it all coming together nicely continues for season after season.Happy hunting!


                
Mindhunter is one of the most intriguing shows I've seen in years. It's among Netflix's surprising portfolio of well-made television series to cover multiple demographics while still attracting the most ardent television-goers like me. Mindhunter is detective fiction showing America's strengths in the genre. If Sherlock did it for British detective fiction, then Mindhunters does the same for its American counterpart.Netflix is slowly facing more and more competition in the internet video-streaming space; with Disney just about to enter the fray, it's great to see that Netflix has still got it in terms of delivering broadly-appealing and well-rounded television.P.S. David Fincher's also one of the co-exec-producers and directors of the show. And yes; his directing is just as sharp as it was in House of Cards.


                
This is a well-paced, thoughtful and challenging series. It shows the ins and outs of developing a new approach to solving crimes and the challenges of office politics. The characters grow with the series and are real, having flaws as well as positive attributes. The lack of action may be not for some, but the action is in the tension of the interviews and the office relationships. Looking forward to the next series.


                
After the pilot episode i was not sure what to think of this show, it felt a bit confusing, it didn't win me over so to speak. But i kept on watching because David Fincher rarely let me down, he has made some of the best movies i have ever seen, so i stuck with it and saw episode 2, also directed by David Fincher.And the second episode completely won me over and hooked me right in, from this point on i was an addict. This show has the strongest first season since "True Detective", it is simply fantastic. The production design, the directing, the acting, the set decorations, the costume design, the music, the locations, the writing.. All of it is absolutely smashing.It is too early to call it a masterpiece just yet, I'm going to give it a few more seasons before i give my verdict, but this is really great storytelling. It moves quite slowly, but i would actually prefer if it went even slower, there are times where i feel they rush a few things to get things going. But in my opinion they could just take their time in this show and do it just right.But this is not really a weakness, it's nitpicking, i just want everything to be just perfect, or apply exactly to my expectations, which are some damn high expectations. In later years i have grown custom to high quality series like "The Wire", "Breaking Bad", "The West Wing", "The Sopranos", "Game of Thrones" and a few more. Quality shows with deep stories and complex characters that demand second and third viewings. There is huge competition at the top, there are many good shows, but there are few great shows.A TV Series with many seasons demand some time to watch, which then you have to devote a lot of time. It's then best to devote your time to great shows than just the good or average ones. This show is one of the new great ones. And my faith in netflix just skyrocketed. When the first season of "House of Cards" aired, i was so thrilled, it was a damn good show, but has in later seasons become weaker, netflix needed something really great again to show they are still on top of their game.David Fincher directed 4 of the 10 episodes in this first season, and two of David Fincher best films is in my opinion "Se7en" and "Zodiac". I love those two films, and they are both about capturing dangerous criminals, this show is exactly that, this is what Fincher does best, and he has nailed it so hard. But not only him, the directors of the other episodes also brilliantly excels.I highly recommend this show, it's damn good, nail bitingly good. And if you are a fan of Fincher's work, or just detective stories in general, this is going to eat you alive. I love it love it love it. Keep it coming.


                
