This premise took a fictional story and gave it the name of a historical place. (Without permission.) Now people think that fiction is historical fact! (Too often history has been cheapened, and the real story has been lost to an attempt to give something credence by taking the name of a real place and wipe away the true story which was far more interesting than a story that had women portrayed as "whores" and outlaws living in a settlement.) The army and local Indians did not tolerate outlaws. They policed their own lands and left each other to live as they pleased,(as outlaws were run off and killed if they wished to stay to cause trouble.) My family were some of the founding families of the Lonesome Dove settlement: It was a settlement built around a church located in Southlake, Texas. There were no whores there, just married couples as settlers trying to make place in the wilderness of Texas during the coldest (1846) winter in 100 years. They raised wheat and corn, traded horses with the army, and local Indians. They also were a church that 160 years ago started all the area churches that fed the poor, and helped build cabins for new settlers brave enough to come here when Texas was still a republic. They also helped freed, and runaway slaves make their own settlement called "Free City." (They formed a society comprised of Blacks and Whites trying to end slavery called TABOR.) Now that is more interesting than "Whores and drunken cowboys!" Doing my research for over 30 years, and making a real story known is much better than some fictional story that trashes the truth.Joe L. Blevins, author of "The Texas Republic." ISBN# 1-55369-140-7 (The true stories of pioneer Texas.) Soon to be a movie, based on the real facts! This is called "The Road to San Jacinto." A story told from the perspective of a freed slave named Andrew that meets Sam Houton to get a land grant in Texas. His wife is killed by robbers on the trail, and some Cherokee on a hunting party find him almost dead. They heal him and take him in as a member of their tribe. Then he finds himself, (along with his Cherokee blood-brother Red Bird) scouting for the Texan army under the command of Sam Houston. Now there is a story! A true one. Like it, or lump it, this is my opinion. You can like fiction if you want. The true story has been waiting to be told. Now it will be told correctly.
I can't believe the rating this film has achieved on IMDb. Given the reviews I thought this will be great. After an hour of yak with absolutely nothing happening I stopped the DVD. I then tried again to finish this assuming it must get better but it is so slow I found myself balancing my checkbook, cleaning the living room and cutting my fingernails. This has to be the most boring westerns ever made. The pigs are the best actors in the show. There is no chemistry between Tommy Lee Jones and Robert Duvall - they seem to be talking past each other and Tommy Lee Jones accent is horrible. I never write reviews but after seeing all the glowing praise I had to share that not everyone will find this to be on the order of The Godfather, Casablanca, Citizen Kane or the Shawshank Redemption (you gotta be kidding me).


                
The popularity of this film, and the praise that it has garnered, stands as a towering monument to the bad taste and general foolishness of the typical American TV viewers, who gobble up this kind of tripe like it was Kentucky Fried Chicken. It is a prime example of the, silly, overly-long, cheaply made TV movies that, inexplicably, are so ragingly popular. This movie, and many others like it, is designed to keep the beer swilling cowboy-wannabes glued to the tube just long enough to catch the Budweiser and Pontiac commercials; but not to have any worthwhile content.The worst thing about this "film" is the incredible waste of some of the best acting talent in Hollywood; they don't get much better than Robert Duvall, Angelica Huston and Danny Glover--why, after seeing the barren script and cliché ridden dialog, they didn't walk away, remains a mystery.The greatest mystery, however, is how long it will be until the people who "created" this mess come forward and reveal that the film is, actually, a monstrously conceived practical joke, on the drunken couch potatoes who loved it: these poor fools wouldn't know a good movie (or a bad one, for that matter) if it bit them in the ass.


                
This is what happens when a good for nothing joke of a movie gets dozens of awards.It is the number of awards that makes people want to see the movie, having great expectations.Like Americans say, EPIC FAIL...American FAIL.I will not bother watching the related sequels.First of all, it is supposed to be a western.No, sir, no western here, as there is no dignity in stealing animals.Two once respected lawmen, going to the other side and becoming criminals, in a movie that tells the story unbelievably slow, no idea of justice and heroism, not a hint of anything like it...This movie is way too American, and some folks who give the movie awards always forget that America is not the World - such " experts " can make a brotherhood or something like this, instead of being an institution, or they better go home in the ghetto and scream how great they are.Second, we, Europeans, already know that America was created by world's top criminal refugees, greedy man and whores, cheap women and you name it.Where are the native people who lived in America ?! The user will be in shock when the movie proudly states that " Americans " have killed all Indians ?! SO, BEING PROUD OF A GENOCIDE MAKES YOU WORSE THAN BOTH Hitler AND STALIN.This movie shows some hint of the truth, but giving so many awards to something that should make Ameicans shame...yuck! Instead, they are all proud to be " Americans " ( there is no such thing as an American nation, it is just a bunch of immigrants, criminals, Average Joes and financial vampires.Third, leaving all behind and starting from scratch with something stolen, like in the movie - it is what Americans do nowadays.USA attacks countries, rich in natural resources, fakes terrorism and sues people without a trial and a lawyer, just to keep their good for nothing dollar living - in Europe, the money are guaranteed with gold.All in all, truth hurts.Facts hurt so much that I am not sure if this review will ever be published.
I love Westerns. The best ones (Naked Spur, The Searchers, Ride the High Country, Shane, etc.) told gritty tales of struggle and hardship, of man at war with nature, evil and himself. They are not alabaster saints, they are real people struggling with real temptation and real failures, but in the end they are redemption stories of people making amends and saving others from their mistakes.In "Lonesome Dove", however, the message is different: Life Stinks and Then You Die.8 hours of talk, talk, talk with no point but vanity and stupidity will get you killed. If that's news to anyone, just surf the internet for five minutes, it'll save you wasting a lot of time.


                
