The Lonesome Dove mini-series contains every core element of a classic story of the mythic Old West: romance, tragedy, courageous and independent yet very human heroes, vicious yet believable villains, plenty of action, and the overall grit and determination of frontier life.  These elements are all woven into an enthralling story centered on an epic journey across the American frontier--a cattle drive from Texas to Montana undertaken shortly after the Custer massacre.  The movie is extremely faithful (in plot, dialogue, and characterizations) to the excellent novel by Larry McMurtry, and especially benefits from McMurtry's genius at narrative and story construction.  What makes the film even better are the truly exceptional performances by the first rate cast, that includes Robert Duvall, Tommy Lee Jones, Robert Ulrich, and Anjelica Huston, and the great musical score, which won a well-deserved Emmy.  This is the kind of film about the Old West that only comes along once in a blue moon, and lovers of Old West stories and movies (as well as real-life cowboys) watch it over and over.  In my view, it ranks above even the classics of Western film, including Red River, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, and Shane--and I love all of those films.  Even though it is over six hours long, and technically a TV mini-series, it should be considered a great film.


                
Little did I realize when I picked up the videotape of `Lonesome Dove' that I would be pitching a tent myself, camped out in front of the tube for most of my Saturday (6 hours, not including pauses for bathroom breaks, meals, letting the dog out, etc.).  It certainly rearranged all my weekend priorities, but it was well worth the sacrifice after all the hoopola I've heard regarding this movie.  It is a must experience.Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones top-line an outstanding cast in this epic-proportioned western which should have been worthy of a cinematic release for it captures beautifully the look, the feel and the time of the Old West as never before.In a nutshell, it relates the tale of two former Texas Rangers, Woodrow Call (Jones) and Gus McCrae (Duvall), both getting on in years, who manage a dusty but comfortable living running a cattle company just outside rundown Lonesome Dove, Texas.  A third ranger, Jake Spoon (Robert Urich), returns from up north, on the lam for an accidental murder, and perks Woodrow's interest in being the first to take a herd into the mostly unsettled northern region of Montana, while laying claim to an area considered `perfect cattle territory.'  He convinces relaxed old-timer Gus, who is content these days with a bottle of whiskey and a whore, to join him for one last thrill to recapture their old "Texas Ranger" glory days and shake up their too sedentary lives.Re-stealing horses and a herd from Mexican bandidos, they sign on a team of men to undertake the arduous journey eventually braving about every type of adversity imaginable.   When it's not windstorms and snake-infested waters threatening life, limb and livestock, they have murderous horse thieves and vengeful Indians to contend with.What makes `Lonesome Dove' stand out proudly is not only its rich, panoramic beauty and intriguing story-lines, but its caring, sharply-defineated characters that keep this six-hour plus movie from ever wandering off. These are people you become fascinated with; people that you want to know as much as you can about <U+0096> even minor characters stay with you here, such as the desponding, thick-accented bar-owner who carries the torch for one of his whores, or the spiritual cook who passes out whittled amulet-like carvings to the cattle team. When asked why he doesn't ride horses, he simply responds, `We are all animals.  How would you like it if someone rode on you?'An intricate, finely-tuned subplot weaves in and out of the main Woodrow/Gus narrative.  A northern sheriff July Johnson (Chris Cooper), accompanied by his stepson, reluctantly takes off to Texas after Jake Spoon for the accidental murder of the town's mayor, but gets sidetracked halfway when he learns his new wife Elmira (Glenne Headley) has abandoned him and the boy in her obsession to find the no-account man she left behind.The acting is superb all around, especially by those mentioned above.  They give this movie such heart and scope.  Also contributing greatly are Diane Lane as the town whore who seeks a better life; earnest Ricky Schroeder as the youngest member of the team whose family tree is questioned; Danny Glover, the wise and dedicated team scout; Barry Corbin as the slow-thinking undersheriff; Frederic Forrest as the murderous redskin Blue Duck; Angelica Huston as Duvall's kind-hearted former flame; Steve Buscemi and Frederick Coffin as a pair of lusty lowlifes; Nina Siemaszko as a scrappy backwoods waif, and others too numerous to name.  But Tommy Lee Jones and, especially, Robert Duvall are the heart and soul of this piece.  They limn characters so fascinating and complete, they just stand apart from the rest.  Gus McCrae, in particular, will be remembered as one of Duvall's proudest creations.So, if you are into all-day campouts that will make you feel you yourself have been on a trek, `Lonesome Dove' is your ticket.  It is wondrous entertainment that now lies in the miniseries Hall of Fame along with "Roots."


                
As a boy, I never liked western films. My father loved them all, all the John Wayne classics, the Spaghetti Westerns, the whole lot.I despised them all. They were all the same. Same plot. Same rotten cinematography. Same unbelievable characters. Couldn't understand the attraction.Then I saw Lonesome Dove. This film (actually a mini-series) is an absolute masterpiece.It starts with the cinematography and locations. It was not your stereotypical Utah-canyon photography, it was the great plains, the Texas deserts, the wide rivers, the mesquite groves. Not marvelous vistas, but simple, real, gritty scenery. You can taste the dust of the panhandle and smell the Kansas plains.Then there's the action. There's lots of it. Flooding rivers, driving rains, realistic fights, thundering cattle drives, horrible scenes of rape and torture (just under TV censor radar), plenty of death and sadness. All of it believable. All of it heart-tugging. All of it amazing.But above all of these great features are the characters and the writing. Augustus McCrae and Woodrow F. Call have become two icons of pop culture, polar opposites who work well together and, in the end, are incomplete without one another. The supporting cast as well is fabulous, well written, patently interesting, and tremendously played. Even the evil characters are fascinating.This is what television and film should be. It is very, very rare for anything of this quality to ever appear on the small screen, and with today's "reality TV" craze, it is even rarer still.Buy the DVD set. You won't be disappointed. 10 out of 10.
Barky


                
I usually shun mini-series.  Sooo long, sooo boring.  Lonesome Dove is anything but. It's one of the most realistic, best character driven films ever made.  Everyone is good, even Ricky (sorry, RICK) Schroeder, but Robert Duval is AMAZING. His Augustus McCrae is so perfect, that one would swear that Robert Duval is that character!  He makes this film for me and I was really happy to hear that it was Duval's favorite character out of his long, excellent career. Lonesome Dove, which is so brilliant, should be on the list of anyone who likes westerns, and anyone who likes good filmmaking in general!


                
In my opinion, this is the best motion picture of all time! While it's a mini-series, I believe it matches up favorably (and surpasses) the best movies...Shawshank Redemption, Seven Samurai, Star Wars, Citizen Kane, and so on. The story, sets, acting, character development, music,....all amazing.The production is as if you were plopped on a horse in the middle of a cattle drive in the old American West. Every detail was as if it was 1880...including dialogue, character depth...and the utter chaos and randomness of life.While there are a couple special effects that might have been a little better, this work of art adds to life. When you have a block of time, watch it.


                
In the end it's how a movie touches your heart that is its measure.The characters must touch you. The story, interesting in itself, must seamlessly direct those characters to be revealed for why they matter. The actors playing those characters need to be right. Or, as here, just damn perfect. Robert Duvall once said something like: sure the British can play Shakespeare. But they can't play Gus McCrae.He's right. You can have the Hamlet DVD any day you want; I'll watch Lonesome Dove.Robert Duvall is the anchor and the soul. Name a better performance. Angelica Huston is the beauty. And somehow Tommy Lee Jones steals the movie.A great story about great characters played by great actors.The Godfather movies, as good as they are, have not the legend or the nobility of Lonesome Dove. Forget the usual suspects like Citizen Kane. This is the great American movie. Helluva vision.


                
Lonesome Dove is not only the best western ever but it's the best miniseries ever. It's one of my favorites up there with the godfather, shawshank, and the dark knight. It made me laugh, made me feel sad, made me feel scared, and excited. They stuck very close to the source material which is good because Lonesome Dove is hands down the best novel ever.All the actors are cast perfectly and play the roles perfectly. The movie is long but has no pacing issues. I would recommend reading the book first but if you don't it won't take much away from the experience.Lonesome Dove is a timeless classic that my dad showed me and I plan to show my kids too.


                
The bonds of friendship and camaraderie displayed in this movie are those born of deep, abiding respect. The central characters earn the respect of their friends over and over through sacrifice and courage, attributes which seem in short supply in these days of PC and hand-wringing hysteria.I found this movie to be both inspirational and heart-wrendingly true to life. "But yesterday's gone and we can't get it back...", words from a man so shaped by his past but not controlled by it. The loss, the personal sacrifices all made out of a sense of honor and deeply held convictions. It makes me take a look at my own friendships and cherish them the more for having experienced so much of life with those few that are truly my friends.I found one aspect of this movie particularly poignant. Gus' evaluation of Woodrow and his 'inhuman' ability to avoid his humanity. Woodrow's promise of a 3000 mile trek to bury his friend was honored but the promise to tell Newt that he was Woodrow's son was not fulfilled. Even as Woodrow cursed Gus' pride he continued to hold his own with unflinching tenacity.It is a terrific movie with a wonderful cast, I can always overlook some bad acting in the overall context of a great film (Anjelica's accent was fleeting at best) and this is a great film.
Lonesome Dove has the uncanny ability, at a 6 hour length, to flow by as quickly as a 60 minute episode of "24".  You never find yourself bored or looking forward to the next scene, as each scene you view is thoroughly engrossing in and of itself.  Even without the tour de force performances by Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones, the remainder of the all-star cast is fantastic.  With the 2 leads, you have an absolute western classic which stands up to any piece that John Ford put out.


                
I have never really been big on westerns, which I considered Lonesome Dove to be before I saw it.  A friend had it and told me I had to see it, I kept her movie for three months before I watched it.  When I did though I loved it.  I've always loved Tommy Lee Jones but this was his greatest role. Robert Duvall was also fantastic.  He makes you fall in love with Gus McCrae.  After I saw the movie, now so many times I can quote it, I bought my own copy and read the books.  This is by far the best book to movie I have ever seen.  Lonesome Dove is a classic whether you like westerns or not.


                
I remember the first time I saw Lonesome Dove I watched all six hours in one sitting.  Big mistake.  You need to take this one in doses.  Watch two hours an evening for a couple of nights.  That said, this is one of the most powerful films on love and friendship.  The movie starts out in Lonesome Dove, Texas where Woodrow 'Cap'n' Call (Tommy Lee Jones) and Augustus 'Gus' McCrae (Robert Duvall) run a small outfit called Hat Creek Cattle Company and Livery Emporium who's sign proudly states "We Don't Rent Pigs! Goats Neither," and in Latin "Uva uvum vivendo varia fit."  In the interest of not telling you everything, you'll have to watch the movie to see if it means anything.Gus and Cap'n Call used to ride with the Texas Rangers years earlier with Joshua Deets (Danny Glover) and Jake Spoon (Robert Urich).  Together these friends get the idea to have one last adventure and decide to take cattle ranching to the Montana Territory.  They get together a herd of cattle and a ragtag bunch of cowhands, including young Newt (Rick Schroder) the orphan son of a woman whom both Cap'n and Gus had been in love with. Two of the finest performances ever given were in Lonesome Dove.  Tommy Lee Jones has never been more effective in a part, and Robert Duvall's Augustus McCrae is probably one of the greatest performances ever.This is a sad movie.  Full of love, loss, friendship, hope, and commitment, there has never been a better movie that embraces so many of the greatest aspects of the human experience.  Definitely a must see.


                
If you enjoy being touched and entertained by a movie, and yet you refuse to see this one because you "don't like westerns", then you are doing yourself the biggest disservice I can imagine.  I GUARANTEE this film is not what you expect!  I GUARANTEE you will be moved and affected by this powerful film. Hey, *I* have historically not enjoyed westerns, but this is quite possibly my all time favorite movie.I almost want to say this is not a "western" - just an superb realistic adventure which happens to take place in the "west."  It is an incredible story about real people living through a very true and difficult era of our country.  (The late 1800's American West.)The characters are REAL and HUMAN, often flawed and heroic at once.  There is not a single moment in the film that feels forced or overly dramatized. The characters never do anything against their nature for dramatic effect."Lonesome Dove" is about people; about life; about love, faith, and perseverance in hard times.  It succeeds in demonstrating these things through human drama, realistic adventure, and touching humor.Just read the rest of the reviews about Lonesome Dove!WATCH THIS MOVIE.


                
Having seen Lonesome Dove when it was aired for the first time on British TV way back it made a deep, deep impression on me. At that time for me "tele-series" meant mindless plots, cardboard by-the-numbers acting, zero surprises and predictability from the first scene. Then along came this wonderful gem with a tremendous story, powerful acting, sharp dialogue, savagery, tenderness, humor, pathos and bitter-sweet sadness. At last we had characters that we could care about, no JR's or Bobby's or the like, here we could care about what could happen next to these people. Now, Jan 2015, I am re-watching this classic on DVD and I convinced my wife (who doesn't like Westerns)to watch it with me. We finished part 1 last night and will now watch part 2...I can already sense her resistance weakening as she gets pulled into the story and realizes this is something special. I await her tears at the end and the rainbow that will appear over my sofa!!! The bar has never been raised higher than this.


                
One of the rare mini-series made that actually can hold it's own against the book. If you have ever been disappointed with a movie after reading the book first, you will be in for a surprise with this one. It manages to have all the characters develop just as they were meant to in the book. It captures your imagination and sucks you into it so well, you actually feel for the characters. There is enough action for the guys and a touching love story for the women. Robert Duvall is perfect as Gus, he's funny and sweet, the heart of the movie. Tommy Lee Jones is the tough man Call, who demands nothing but respect. Diane Lane is the whore you can't help but want something better for. And Rick Schroder is far better than you could have imagined when he was doing "Silver Spoons" You can see how he developed into the character he now plays on TV.So if you love a good western and a good story, pop up some popcorn, recline back in your Lazy-boy and prepare to spend a few wonderful hours back in the old west.


                
By far it is the best western and one of the ONLY westerns I've ever got into. I devoured the book over and over again after I watched the series and am shocked to have the series be just as good as the book, if not better. The cast is a phenomenal cast and Tommy Lee Jone's best performance, I seriously didn't recognize him for a while but when I did I was like THATS Tommy?! That's how good he was! Also Duval and Glover gives an impeccable performance and it is clear that each person playing that character seemed to be MADE to play that person. The women it it give strong performances and the action and music is amazing. A MUST SEE, even if you don't like westerns you'll like this one! I know you will!


                
Lonesome Dove is indeed a masterpiece. McMurtry's Pulizter-Prize-winning novel is magnificently brought to life for television. The casting could not have been better. Robert Duvall as Augustus McCrae and Tommy Lee Jones as Woodrow Call bring a wonderful depth to the legend of the cowboy, the Texas Ranger, the cattleman, the adventurer, and the pioneers of America's West.Utterly believable, the character of Gus is based on real life rancher and pioneer Oliver Loving, who, with Charles Goodnight (real life cattleman and partner and the basis of the character Woodrow Call), created the Loving/Goodnight Trail for moving herds of cattle.An epic, sweeping tale of men who did not fear living, and lived every moment of their lives.The cinematography, music, and direction are awesome. A wonderful, wonderful, story. Watch it. Read the book. Worth every second. As Gus said, "It ain't dying' I'm talking' about, it's living!" Duvall so deserved an award for this role.
As an avid fan of old westerns since I was a kid, I had seen most of the famous Clint Eastwood and John Wayne western movies. I saw this movie when I was about 10 years old and have absolutely loved it every since. I can definitely say that it is the best western ever made, no exaggeration. The cast is unbelievable, the story is great, and the music adds so much emotion to the plot. You can actually feel the emotion of the characters and in the scenes. It's about 6 hours long but it's worth every minute. I've seen the movie so many times through the years and can still sit down and watch it anytime. Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones are fantastic. I highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of western films. Easily a 10 out of 10


                
Tommy Lee Jones and Robert Duvall. What more can i say best combination there could ever be. Tommy plays the best Woodrow there could ever be and Robert Duvall as gus i admire his character so much that I chose the name for my Rottweiller. This movie is one that will always be up at the top of my list. I have watched it many times and have read the book many times without any less interest to me. Yes there are some differences between the book and the movie but true LD fans would not care. Newt is such and endearing character to the point that i will always call Ricky(who has certainly come along way from silver spoons)in any show he is in Newt.


                
Ironicially, as a rule I do not enjoy Westerns, but I considered Lonesome Dove to be the best and most powerful TV miniseries of all time. And the "best Western ever" goes without saying.Why? Unlike almost every other Western, this may be the only one to paint a true picture of life in the Old West. Superb writing, acting, and story-telling in general, much of it based on real stories from that era.This is one of those epic movies you get so drawn into, and for so long, that it has the ability to touch your emotions more deeply than your average movie. I actually felt kind of sad when it was over, so involved had I become with the characters. I thought about it for days. And have watched it over and over again in pieces ever since.Don't be frightened by the length! Watch it in 3 or 4 segments if you have to, but JUST WATCH IT!


                
None of the viewer comments takes note of the book, on which the TV mini-series is based. When it first came out (it won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction), the NY Times review said, "..at 800 pages, it was far too short." I read it straight through. I couldn't put it down. The Tv film is absolutely faithful to the book. Robert Duvall, probably the greatest living film actor we have, recreated Gus MacRae as no one else could. When I was young, I spent five years cowboying off and on, working both ranches and feed lots, up the crescent of the high plains, from Deming, New Mexico up through Miles City, Montana. The book and the film capture the feel of working cowboy existence (which hasn't changed much over a hundred years) perfectly. Larry McMurtry grew up among cowboys and small ranchers. One of the viewers comments on the ease of racial relationships. From the Civil War on, probably a third of the cowboys were African Americans and Mexicans. It is a brilliant film, with brilliant acting, and a brilliant script.


                
i first saw this movie when i was in 9th grade.and OMG.I watched it all the time! it's 6 hours, so when i would get up to do my hair and make-up for skool, i would push play and start the movie where i left off.this movie MADE me have a school girl crush on Robert Devall. I never even enjoyed anything remotely western before this movie, or after really. It's one of a kind, The wit and subtle humor in it, can't really be compared to any other western out there. you can watch the sequels to it (dead man's walk, streets of loredo) but...really they don't have the charm lonesome dove has. let me tell you. the book is EVER better.


                
I grew up on western movies - Roy Rogers and Gene Autry. But when I saw Lonesome Dove when it first came out, it ruined all the Hollywood westerns for me. They can in no way compare to Lonesome Dove. From what I was able to find out afterward, the costumes were authentic even down to the cross draw manner in which they wore their pistols. This was without a doubt Robert Duvall's best role. And Tommy Lee Jones didn't do too bad either. It was gritty with a lot of tragedy, but then, wasn't that the way life was in the Old West? Hollywood has romanticized the whole thing, but I think Lonesome Dove showed it the way it really was.


                
Without a doubt, Lonesome Dove goes down in history as the best Western Movie ever made. The best story. Best cast of characters. Every time it is watched it only gets better. The book is a fabulous read, but the movie is even better than the book. This is rare and why this movie is the top of the Western Movie list. The greats like Louis L'Amour and Zane Grey have all written classic stories of the old west. And there have been good movies made from these stories - several since Lonesome Dove, but none have been able to exceed it's power. The story encompasses all of the emotions shown in the best of western stories. It literally traverses the old west from South to North. It also brings in all parts that made the Old West the element of history is has become. The best of the bad, the ugly and the good. I have watched every western made before LD and since, and NONE of them come to the level of LD. The only made-for-TV series that comes close - and is my #2 on this list - is Centennial. Buy Lonesome Dove and watch it regularly. It does the heart good.
This is much more than a Western – it's a great story. Everything in this six hour epic is captivating – the characters, the settings, the music. There is an authenticity that is beyond reproach. It's got tenderness and pain (get the Kleenexes out for the last couple of hours). This is truly a magnificent performance by all. A must watch!I have watched it a few times since it was first released on TV in the late 1980's. I am still enthralled by it and so happy to see it now on the clarity of Blue-ray (still remember the crappy version I recorded on VHS)!Read the book too – it provides more depth to this awe-inspiring story!


                
This film ranks with "The Searchers". "Red River", "The Outlaw Josey Wales," and any other of the greatest Western films of all time. No need to repeat all the superlatives that have been rightly heaped upon this film, except to say it deserves them all. The only reason I gave it 10 stars is because I can't give it 20. The acting performances are top-notch throughout the production, the clothing, sets, weapons, and dialog are all near-perfect. One of the major reasons I believe it turned out so well is because it started with first rate material- the towering, unbelievably fine, Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Larry McMurtry. By sticking so very close to the original storyline, situations and characters, they began with a much higher standard of material than is often the case with a mini-series. My profound thanks to all associated with the creation of this timeless masterpiece.


                
