My dad who is an aficionado of the Wild West gave me a loan of the first series of DEADWOOD on DVD which I enjoyed immensely . He then gave me a loan of LONESOME DOVE a series that I had heard great things about but I had never seen mainly because I'm not much of a fan of the Western genre . Great things ? Just look at this page to see the reviews or the fact that this series has an average rating of 9.1 , I think only BAND OF BROTHERS has a better rating on this site . So over two consecutive nights I watched the series and have to confess I was slightly disappointed mainly down to the story and production valuesThe story rambles around with a lack of focus . The central plot itself revolves around two Texas Rangers Gus McCrae and Woodrow Call who decide to move cattle all the way from Texas up to Montana which has all the making of an epic journey , but we're then introduced to countless characters who flit in and out of the story many of who are killed off which left me wondering why they were included in the first place . If JRR Tolkien had been a fan of the Wild West this is how LORD OF THE RINGS may have ended up looking like ! I was also confused as to what sort of audience the producers had in mind since McCrae and Call leave Lonesome Dove with a couple of friendly pigs in tow , ala a Walt Disney family adventure then later on we're treated to some very cold blooded killings . At least DEADWOOD knows it's for adults only but LONESOME DOVE mixes violence with sugary sentimentality which gives it a jarring quality As for the production values it suffers from one of those made for television feelings with scenes having the camera locked onto a medium shot far too many times . Director Simon Wincer should be excused much of the blame since he's almost working on a tight budget and he does try but unfortunately when he tries to film a beautiful breath taking scene like McCrae's riding over the crest of the hill pursued by Indians you notice the scene doesn't really come across as cinematic . About the only scene where everything does come together in a visual sense is the final scene right at the end If it wasn't for the cast I would have certainly struggled with this because the cast are by far the best thing . Never mind Pacino and DeNiro , Robert Duvall is the greatest living American character actor alive today and once again he gives a greatly understated and consistent performance as Gus McCrae while Tommy Lee Jones ( An actor who can be very uneven ) gives one of his career best performances . Mention must go to many of the other cast members like eternal good guy Robert Urich being cast very much against type , DB Sweeney whose character is in love with a prostitute and most especially the then unknown Chris Cooper who gives a truly haunting performance as former lawman July Johnson . I wasn't too impressed with Frederic Forrest though since I don't think he made a convincing Indian and having a character who conjures up images of Donald Duck doesn't help at all So as it stands the cast save LONESOME DOVE for the casual viewer , but it's almost certainly a mini series that will appeal to Western fans than to casual viewers and I'm looking forward to seeing the second series of DEADWOOD more than I am to RETURN TO LONESOME DOVE


                
There are many people who consider "Lonesome Dove" to be the greatest Western saga ever created. While I can't quite go that far in my praise for it, I will say that it was easily worth watching for the iconic characters (bolstered by incredible acting) it cultivates throughout.For a basic plot summary, "Lonesome Dove" tells the story of Gus McCrae (Robert Duvall) and Woodrow Call (Tommy Lee Jones), two cattle ranchers who decide to leave their dusty Texas ranch and move the herd to Montana on the advice of fellow friend Jake Spoon (Robert Urich). Along the way, they deal with the harshness of the Old West territory, Indian warrior Blue Duck (Frederic Forrest), and (more importantly) cultivate new relationships. Lorena Wood (Diane Liane) is a prostitute who wants to turn over a new leaf and start a life with Gus, but first the old cowpoke must deal with his feelings toward old flame Clara (Anjelica Huston). A side plot sees a Sheriff, July Johnson (Chris Cooper), set off with his son Joe (Adam Faraizal) to hunt down Spoon, who murdered another in a dispute and must be given justice.The reason "Lonesome Dove" is such an iconic miniseries is because it creates characters that seem so real. Often, westerns can fall into the "stock character" trap where the participants are a bit too cut-and-dry, or black-and-white. The exact opposite happens here, as pretty much each and every character is given something to do and room to grow.That being said, the whole film pretty much revolves around Duvall's Gus, and fortunately that actor is up to the task. While the surrounding acting performances are also great, everyone else (as characters) are really defined by their relationship to Gus. I don't want to sound like I'm taking anything away from the film as a whole, but I was always invested when Gus was at the forefront (physically or emotionally) and that wasn't always the case otherwise.The only criticism I have of "Lonesome Dove"? I felt that some of the subplots didn't live up to the main emotional backbone of the whole thing. I was underwhelmed by the July Johnson angle, I didn't like Blue Duck's character at all (it felt to me as if he were shoe-horned in because the producers thought an Indian presence was needed), and I felt that a bit too much time was spent on Dish Boggett (D.B. Sweeney), a ranch hand on the drive. The one sub-angle that works in spades? Newt (Ricky Schroder), Call's unrequited son. There was some real emotion there. Other than that though, I felt that those other auxiliary pieces (even if they were still well-acted, for the most part) distracted me from Gus, Call, and the really good material taking place on the cattle drive.So, while I can't put "Lonesome Dove" at the tip top of my list, I enjoyed the experience and would recommend it to Western film fans. When Duvall, Lane, Jones, Schroder, and Huston were on center stage, this miniseries truly was as good as it gets. The interactions feel real, not derived, and there is real drama, both physical and emotional. It strayed down a few paths that didn't hold my attention (especially in the second and beginning of the third acts), but overall easily deserving of a solid 4-star ranking.
There is no doubting that Lonesome Dove does stand head and shoulders above the usual Western fare produced by Hollywood. Stylistically <U+0097> all that grit and dirt and its very unromantic portrayal of life and especially death in the West <U+0097> it reminds me of Sergio Leone's spaghetti Westerns. And thankfully there is none of that mawkish sentimentality so beloved by Yanks which all but ruins a film for me. My one quibble is the degree of coincidence in the film. And if it wasn't for its other major strengths, that would turn me off completely. Given the size of Texas, Nebraska, Arkansas etc., it is astounding how all the characters keep bumping into each other in the same neck of the woods, the same small town, the same farm. I thought the idea was that you could get lost in the West . . .
