I cannot fault it in any way. It gets a maximum ten out of ten from me. I am laughing at it just as much now (I'm watching the first series on DVD at the moment and I will buy the other series as and when I can) as I did when I were a child! Fabulous! The special guests were plentiful, varied, and always 'A' list for the time (some still are but a lot of them have now very sadly passed away and they and their talents will always be very greatly and very sorely missed) and always willing to send themselves up in a big way. Sure the singers all sang and the actors all acted etc. in the way the pieces were supposed to be done but, you see, it wasn't what they were singing/saying that sent them up but what was going on around them with the puppets, the scenery their clothes etc. they had put on for their sections. Spike Milligan, John Cleese, Steve Martin, Bob Hope, Harry Bellafonte, Shirly Bassy, Andy Williams, Roger Moore, Mark Hammil, Sylvester Stallone, Gene Kelly, Peter Ustinov, Liberace, Elton John, Alice cooper, Ethel Merman, Glenda Jackson, Liza Minelli, Juliette Prowse, Twiggy, are just a few of the many famous people that appeared on The Muppet Show and they were all more than happy to join in the general mayhem and ludicrousness in the show.The jokes are wonderful and have not lost their impact or become stale over time. Every line and every sketch is as fresh now as it was all those years ago when the programme first aired and could (no, make that would) easily hold up in today's world with today's families if they were to be repeated in all their glory. And if the children of today haven't heard of some of the stars well that wouldn't make any difference at all because you don't have to have heard of a star to enjoy watching them doing what it is that they do best and have the puppets take the mickey out of it! Muppets Tonight was the last time they all got together for at least one series and I loved it as much as I love this and long for it to happen again! OK so the script may not have been as sharp in Muppets Tonight, But I love anything and everything to do with them (and the fact that they are now owned by Disney is just too fantastic for words as I ADORE most things by Disney and Love the rest!)! I have got some of the programmes on video tape and I am now looking to replace them with dvds which (apart from the complete first series) don't appear to be around at the moment. Not the last time I looked anyway which could have been the wrong place(s) if they have been released at all. I have since found out they are yet to be released so I'll be buying them as and when they are! Or at the very least, as and when I can afford them!Easily above 10/10!


                
As a true fan of Muppets in all their incarnations, I have been waiting for this DVD set.The Muppet Show has to be one of the best programs produced. Kermit, Piggy, Fozzie, Gonzo and the gang will always make me laugh. Considering I was only 6 when the show originally aired, I'm finally able to see all the episodes in their original broadcast order. And just being able to hear all the songs and comedy bits is awesome. I'm especially looking forward to hearing all of the "Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem" songs.The DVD set isn't loaded with extras, but it's got a "Fact Track" which has a lot of great info, although the graphic overlay sometimes interferes with the action and comedy on the screen (similar to the Back To The Future fact tracks). But the basic fact you get 24 episodes is well worth the money you spend on it (I got it for my birthday, although it retails at Wal-Mart for about 30 bucks), and I can't wait for the other seasons to come out on DVD (along with the season of "Fraggle Rock") If you are a Muppet Fan, or at least a Kermit fan, you owe it to yourself to pick up this set. The variety show is pretty much a dead art form, but the Muppet Show is a classic example of how it should be done.


                
I used to watch the Muppet Show a lot when they re-ran old episodes on Nickelodeon in the 90s, and saw a large variety of episodes, some that they released on DVD in patches a few years ago. It made me very, very happy though when I got my hands on the season 1 DVD set (albeit with some cuts made due to song rights and whatnot, which is a little disappointing but nevertheless a collector's item) and could get into the predictable- which is part of the fun- and great oddities and regulars on the show. Maybe I might be partly biased, as I've always loved the Muppets, particularly the movies and other little diddies they've done. But the show could be either a superb show for the whole family, or a little hit or miss depending on the audiences of today. For kids- as the original 'pitch' on the DVD says- there are a lot of quirky, odd, and assuredly original creations aside from the common muppets (Kermit, Fozzie, Gonzo, Ms. Piggy, Rowlf, Stanter & Waldorf, etc), but there's also some really, really weird moments on the show, such as dancing slinkies and a character like Crazy Harry who's only function is to make things explode with a Peter Lorre-esquire expression.For adults and older teens, such bizarre things and the assorted lot of memorable guests ranging from musicians (Elton John, Alice Cooper, Paul Williams, etc etc) comedians (John Cleese, Harvey Korman, Peter Sellers), and many other surprise types like Vincent Price and Harry Belafonte, are appealing, but what about the really goofy gags and infinite lot of bad puns? For me though, everything about the show is terrific in its sort of low-budgeted TV 70s way. It's very nutty, but it's alive in a way that makes shows of today pale in comparison. In the first season it establishes itself as a wild lampooning of variety shows of the period in general, with the guests almost as a given being apart of the jokes, and with running gags, a quasi central 'storyline' going on backstage, and like on any variety show giving full-time for jokes, musical numbers sometimes with upside down chins making faces, and just very unexpected bits with the Muppet creatures and puppets that you will never see again. And the wit that goes through the entire series, from episode to episode, sometimes varies, but is always with a great wink and a nod to how silly it is, but at the same time it's also very smart-being-stupid humor too. An example of this would be when CLeese was on, and having to help Gonzo fix his long-arm problem after catching a cannonball. It's at equal turns overall cartoonish, exciting, whimsical, and it usually attempts to work best for young and old alike.


                
The Muppet Show is, by far, one of the best constructed variety shows out there.  Plus, it has all our favorite Muppet characters, and seriously, who can go wrong with the Muppets?  This show is a perfect blend of song and dance, Muppet and guest star interaction, and just plain fun for the whole family.The humor in the show offers the perfect mix of adult jokes and gags that fly right over the heads of children, and laughs that both child and adult can enjoy.  Jim Henson truly created a masterpiece with this show, not to mention his popular films and other spin-off shows.  The Muppet Show also offers a wonderful glimpse of many of the stars of yesteryear (the mid- to late-1970s), many of whom still survive today.This show definitely needs to be picked up by one of the networks for syndication because, although it seems somewhat dated at times (not much, though, really) it's genuine entertainment value could boost any network's ratings.Deservedly so, I've given The Muppet Show a rating of 10 stars out of 10!


                
I love the Muppets with a passion, they were part of my childhood. And like my childhood I do miss it. It is ingenious, from the humour, the songs and the characters it is so much fun. The puppetry is first rate, and the backstage parts are exceedingly entertaining. The songs are simple, easy to remember and easy to sing along to without being repetitive. There are so many classic Muppet moments- Kermit singing It's Not Easy being Green, Leo Sayer, Floyd Pepper, John Cleese, the cannonball stunt, the hospital saga, Waldorf and Statler and their heckling, the ballroom dancing and Julie Andrews singing with the goat- the latter was priceless! I love every single one of the Muppets, Kermit with his charm, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Swedish Chef, Floyd Pepper, Statler, Waldorf, Fozzie and Dr Teeth, and Jim Henson, Jerry Nelson, Dave Goelz, Richard Hunt and Steve Whitmere deserve nothing but praise for bringing these timeless characters to life. Overall, the Muppets are the epitome of my childhood, I shall never forget them and I shall never stop loving them. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
The Muppets have become household names since their debut in the 1960s, through Sesame Street, and before that Sam & Friends (with Kermit debuting in 1955). However, The Muppet Show broadened the audience appeal of Jim Henson's timeless characters, and the amalgamation of marionettes and puppets (hence muppet being a portmanteau of those words) gave us some of television's finest and happiest characters in the history of the medium.The Muppet Show is ecstasy in the form of a variety show. Kermit the Frog is obviously the mascot of the show and Muppet icon, and he's always fun to watch and listen to. You know when you see him in the introductory sequence that you're in for a feel-good time. You'll laugh, admire the colourfulness of Jim Henson's wild imagination and direction of his muppets, and the guest appearances this show attracted while it was on-air: Peter Sellers, John Cleese, Mark Hamill, Paul Williams, Julie Andrews, Alice Cooper, Elton John and many more.Jim Henson left us with a gorgeous career, unfortunately all too soon considering he died just at the age of 53 in 1990; but he left the world making it a much happier and colourful place. And The Muppet Show is an exemplary slice of his career. We miss you, but we'll always love you Jim: now and forever.


                
What can I say about the "Muppet Show" that has not already been said? I can remember seeing the first episodes and finding the series funny with all what went on each week. I also saw the feature films in the theater and enjoyed them just as much. But going back and watching the Muppets as an adult has truly made me realize what an amazing show this truly was, and still is. The one-off clips are creative.....check out the "Hugga Wugga" clip for a wild out of this world experience...and funny, a ship full of Viking pigs attacking a village to the Village People song "In the Navy". The regular weekly segments were hilarious...the pun filled Veterinarian Hospital, the Swedish Chef's culinary disasters, Wayne and Wanda failing in new and interesting ways to sing their songs, and the crazy mess ups in Muppet Labs. The regular characters are iconic. Fozzie Bear and his bad stand up comedy, Rowlf the Dog's piano playing, Gonzo and his wacky stunts, the two old hecklers in the balcony box, Miss Piggy and her diva-ness, Animal the wild drummer and the rest of the band consisting of some pretty cool hippie rock players, Dr Bunsen and his long suffering assistant Beaker, and of course Kermit the Frog leading the way. And then there are the live guest stars. Amazing a-listers every week. It was known back in the day that you had truly made it big when you appeared on the "Muppet Show". And while the main focus was comedy, the viewer would also be treated to some classic performances that were truly beautiful. Rowlf the Dog singing "What a Wonderful World" in a simple and heartfelt manner to a real puppy, Victor Borge's performance of "Inchworm", with the funnyman singing wisely and fatherly, and a surreal and hauntingly beautiful version of "Send in the Clowns" by Judy Collins. All great. 100 years from now people will still be familiar with this show.
I always say that my favorite type of film is comedy. I should also say that about TV shows. And The Muppet Show is one of my favorite comedy shows! It has everything that I love in comedy TV shows: good, memorable characters, funny comedy, a memorable theme song that will never leave your head, and, of course, a feeling of being for kids and adults! I would talk about the characters, but you all know them: Kermit the Frog, Ms. Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Gonzo, etc. These characters are so remarkably funny and so connectible that we remember them even over 40 years later! The show relies mostly on slapstick comedy to make you laugh, but, that isn't their only type of comedy. They also use spoken comedy to balance it out. I like that, because too much slapstick is not funny. The THEME?! GOOD GOSH this theme is amazing! You find yourself humming it almost everyday! It's just so goofy in its lyrics, but the seriousness in the orchestration makes it all too memorable. So if want a nostalgic show to watch and have fun with the family, go buy this show! You won't regret or forget it!!


                
YEAH, IT'S TRUE! We can't think of anyone we knew who didn't watch this universally appealing half hour. From the youngest kids to those who were then considerably long in the tooth, all reported enjoying the half hour and trying their best not to miss it. With five full seasons under their Muppet Belt, Mr. Jim Henson and Company succeeded in putting the name of "Muppets" into the dictionary, the consciousness and the very spirit that makes up the best sense of what mankind is and could be.AFTER A HUMBLE START on a local TV Station in Washington, DC, the Troupe soon branched out and up in as a steadily rising, original phenomenon. Through their appearances in commercials, on the PBS powerhouse kiddie show. SESAME STREET and then their own show and feature films.IN OUR OWN case, we remember the Muppets doing commercials in our TV Market of Chicago for one of the local Dairy Companies, Kramel Milk.BY THE TIME that THE MUPPET SHOW first aired, they were pretty much a household word and their Creator, Jim Henson was fast becoming a sort of Walt Disney of generation. Because of the acclaim that had been bestowed upon them, the notion of their having a series of their own called for some special consideration and creative fashioning of a unique program.REMEMBERING THAT THERE previously had been "Puppet Shows" on the TV airwaves. For the most part, they were strictly kiddie stuff; with frugal budgets, limited sets, one or more adult 'guides' and permanent consignment to daytime programing. THe roll call included: HOWDY DOODY, RUDY KAZOOTIE, PATTY PELICAN and GARFIELD GOOSE.* THE ONE TRUE exception was the long running KUKLA, FRAN & OLLIE; featuring Burr Tilstrom's creativity and Fran Allison's mother-like hosting.WHEN THIS HENSON Production premiered, it was obvious from the get-go that a new era in puppetry had dawned. The program featured great original music, plush sets, large cast and a variety of characters; who ranged from their oldest Rolf (the Dog)& Kermit the Frog to their newest, being Miss Piggy & 'Stand-up Comic', Fozzie Bear.MR. HENSON'S OVERVIEW called for a multi-dimensional frontal attack on our funny-bones. In addition to the on-stage entertainment, there was the comic device of giving us, the viewing audience, look at what happens back stage. Every program featured scenes of all of the hustle and bustle that goes on as one act leaves stage and another enters the spotlight.THe overall effect is that of an old fashioned Variety Show; such as those that were once so prevalent in American TV. Its production design and core were obviously patterned after the English Music Hall and its American cousin, Vaudeville.THE THIRD PHASE of the show's appeal was derived from the inclusion of the frequently shown 'Studio Audience'; which was one that even Ed Sullivan would have envied. Instead of people, the patrons in the Muppet Theatre were all, themselves, Muppets. Particularly popular were the two 'Old Men' Hecklers' whose names currently escape me.PERHAPS THE BIGGEST element to the show's unique categorization and distinction was the inclusion of bone fide Guest Stars. Some of the best known and most beloved performers came calling in this role.ONE FACTOR THAT is both highly unique and unknown to many viewers is that THE MUPPET SHOW was taped at British Studios in the U.K. rather than the U.S.IT'S AMAZING HOW they managed to get our language down so, well!


                
The Muppet Show is maybe the best family show ever made, it is all the way back from the 70s but I discovered it when I was growing up (well my mom introduced it to me) and it was just awesome, I loved it. I still remember laughing my head off at Fozzie and Beaker and The Swedish Chef and pretty much all the other great characters Jim Henson put together. The man must have been a genius because I still love it today and my mom and I will pass it on to the next generation of family. The movies were also very good (OK so a few missteps but over all they're still good) and the new movie reboot was great too, I hope they can keep it up and make these movies (and maybe even bring back the TV show) for generations to come!


                
Here I go again I am 46 YEARS OLD. I am having a BAD week so I turn on my OLD EPISODES of this MASTERPIECE. HOW CAN YOU NOT BE IN TEARS, LAUGHING, IN JOY, WATCHING THE MUPPETS AT THERE BEST.Come on THEY Went CRAZY for The STALLONE, FOR A PUNCH LOL. THESE WERE ALL GREAT EPISODES.
Cheryl Ladd, Alice Cooper, Jean Stapleton, Loretta Lynn, Vincent Price, John Denver, Kenny Rodgers, Don Knotts. This is just a few people on the Show but Man so many Stars back in the 70s were on this Show it BLEW your mind. Like Steve Martin was even on this Show. Elton John, Rich Little, John Gleese, Cloris Leachman, Bob Hope, Peter Sellers.
A MUST WATCH MASTERPIECE.
DO NOT REMAKE THIS MASTERPIECE SHOW. LEAVE IT AS IS.


                
I always loved watching shows involving puppets, there is always something about making what isn't entirely real seem alive. It really in a way blurs and somewhat breaks a wall of reality because logically we know what we're seeing isn't real but due to the quality of the puppeteer's performance we forget that and almost believe the puppet is alive. However, to me the real joy of puppeteering is how it helps us draw out the many hidden aspects of our personas that we can't really express successfully as ourselves, but though this form of are we can give these aspects life.This is another one of my favorite skit shows of all time, their also another childhood relic I loved watching them back then and I still love watching them now. Jim Henson is one of my favorite effects artists, what I've always loved about his work is how much he has revolutionized puppeteering show how you can still do so much more with the form of art which is now to this day still utilized but also how he really brings them to life, making puppets not just objects of entertainment but actual characters that almost feel as real as you and me.This skit/variety show was nothing anyone has ever seen before nor has seen ever since. Puppets caring out and running a skit show, that's something you'd never think would happen, but it did and I'm glad Jim had the guts to do it, because one wild almost out there idea turned out to be something legendary.This show was a real phenomon that really gave people a new way in how we look at effects, comedy, music as well as stage performance which all make the show timeless to this day. In a way this is what skit/variety shows are by their nature actors pretending to be different characters for different stories while expressing comedy in many colorful different ways.There are just loads of characters that are almost the size of roster from the DC and Marvelverse. All have different colorful personas, I remember as a kid I honestly thought they were real, with those great puppeteering and vocal performances it's almost easy to make that assumption. I'll just state a few of my favorite characters since there are so many.Gonzo he's just great because of how strange he is. I really like that there is this enigmatic quality to him as we never really know what he really is; I always assumed he was some sort of rare bird with that long candy cane shaped nose of his and his bodily design, but he's not. Who the heck really know he could be a creature from another dimension for all I know, your guess is as good as mine. But what I love about him is how expressive he is with the strangeness, he's not afraid to put it out there, as he just does some of the craziest things because it feels good and his way of saying this is who he is. Mainly a bunch of crazy stunts that would make Jackie Chan think twice about. Like shooting himself out of a cannon that most of the time ends in disaster, though that never bothers him as he just continues to do what he does best if not very good.Fozzie the Bear, he's funny as he's a failed comedian that is always making some of the worst jokes imaginable that only he can imagine. Yet, strangely there funny because their so bad their good and the fact that Fozzie is the one telling it. But he's such a loveable character because he's not just good to his friends but the fact that despite getting more groans than laughs, he never lets it stop him he continues doing what he loves doing despite the fact he's not very good at it, which I can emphasize with and is a good message because we all get mixed results in life but as long as we happy continuing doing what we do that what really counts.Kermit the Frog, this is my favorite character in the show. It's funny how insecure he always is as he's always trying to keep things in order and running right despite how chaotic things always are and a certain amount of psychological and physical grief he receives from the mixed results. Which is another thing I can emphasize with as even I like things to run orderly and right. What makes him funny and loveable are despite all of the chaos he never lets it get him down, in a way it actually puts him at his best as he's always continuing and determined to put on a good show no matter what and maintain good relations with his friends and everyone around him, for the most part he succeeds.The comedy is great as it's has a perfect balance of both visual and verbal, there are plenty of memorable lines. Even love the music there are plenty of memorable songs that I could download onto my iPod or play on a record player. The sketches and musical bits are all well written and cleverly structured, each always is something different you never know what your going to get which I think is always the best thing about sketch comedies like opening up well packaged Christmas gifts.The other highlight of this show are the guest stars where are numerous as there are many memorable guest stars. It also makes the show a bit of a time capsule as most of the guest stars were from yesteryear and each of them are good in their own way as their not so much there playing characters for a skit but actually are all being themselves and having a good time doing it, which I find enduring.There are a few that are my favorites like Rachel Welch whom as usual is hot which was, I'll admit a little risqué but the episode reminds us this show isn't just for kids, really love that dance with the spider puppet, I won't say any more than that you just have to see for yourself. But also like her back and forth with Mrs. Piggy which was fun.Another is Liza Minelli whom I'll admit was kind of hot at the time, really like the noir mystery story that plays out which makes this episode awesome as I love the noir genre. It's surprisingly dark as one by one Muppets are getting killed off by an unknown assailant and it's up to Kermit and Liza to figure out who it is. I really like how it feels like a real mystery as we're solving the mystery with them and laughing at the same time, it really doesn't take itself too seriously; it's also what that film "The Happytime Murders" wanted to be but failed.And my absolute favorite/s are Vincent Price and Alice Cooper. I know it's a tie, but both are equally awesome in my book as both are Halloween themed, I always loved Halloween themed comedy because horror and comedy are always a beautiful mix. As well as star one of my favorite actors and singers; it was a dream come true for me which is not a feeling I get often. Both episodes are great as both offer just a corn a copia based on the Halloween theme from a variety of monster puppets, Kermit as a vampire, Alice Cooper singing and dancing with puppets on some of his famous songs. For Muppet fans but also the Horror community these episodes were a real Halloween treat.The Muppets are just puppets, their alive.Rating: 4 stars


                
Jim shaped my childhood and imagination, this series is so brilliant and has something for everyone.


                
I don't think I have to say I love this show! I am a huge fan of Jim Henson's Muppets (in my mind, Disney will never own Jim Henson's creations - THINK OF ME AS YOU WILL!), and, therefore, I should really love this! It's a great, fantastic variety show! So, what makes a show like this work? Well, let's look:The first is obviously the Muppets themselves! Whenever you first watch a Muppet production, the first thing you see are puppets. But after a while, you unconsciously become invested, not just into the production (whether it's a TV show, TV special, movie, etc.), but you also get invested into the characters. They're not just puppets anymore. They're not just pieces of fabric or cloth sown onto Styrofoam; no, these are legit people! We all know someone like Kermit the Frog, Fozzie Bear, Gonzo the Great, Miss Piggy, Rowlf the Dog, Scooter, Robin the Frog, Statler and Waldorf, and so many of the other characters! They come from a real place, and we're able to relate to them and love them because of it. Also, their interactions with each other is just hilarious! Because these are people, you are always entertained when you see two different characters paired up with someone else in a scene. Watch a scene with Fozzie and Rowlf, or with Dr. Teeth and Sam the Eagle! They're hilarious! Some of my personal favorites are Statler and Waldorf! While Kermit is my favorite Muppet, I have to say that I'll laugh anything these two are doing! They define the humor of irony! My favorite kind of humor comes from an ironic situation, and these two master that well! Take this exchange of lines for example:WALDORF: Well, as they say in France, adiós! STATLER: Uh, that's Spanish! WALDORF: I know. I don't speak French.CAN YOU SPELL AWESOME?!?Another reason this show works is because it's not always trying to force humor down your throat. Oh, it's a funny show, but it's not always trying to be funny. There are many moments where we see another side of the characters, or when we see, dare I say it, something serious and beautiful. There are plenty of those moments. The episode with Harry Belafonte ends with his song "Turn the World Around," a song about all people being one. There's a scene in Season 2 with Rowlf singing "What a Wonderful World" to a puppy. Not only is the show crazy, insane, and hilarious, but it can also be heartfelt and beautiful."The Muppet Show" also isn't trying to conform with what's popular. Yes, they sing well known songs, but their form of entertainment is very unique. The jokes, the situations, the characters, the interactions - it's all unique and original. It's not trying to be something else, it's trying to be its own show. That is bold and courageous!The puppetry in this show is great! They really push the envelope when showing all that puppets are capable of, especially in film! They dance, they fight, they fly - there's nothing they can't do!I'd be lying if I said this show is totally timeless. It's timeless in the sense you'll laugh with it and appreciate it no matter when you watch it. At the same time, though, there are 2 things stopping it from being totally timeless: the celebrities and the songs (this is something I should have mentioned in my "Sesame Street" review). Both of these elements gave into what was popular at the time. Whenever a piece of dramatic art has a popular song or a celebrity, it's dating itself because these things won't be famous for long. Not everyone knows who Ben Vereen, Bob Hope, or Madeline Kahn are today, sadly. They all should, but they don't. But, with that, maybe this show can play the role of teacher. Maybe by having your friends and/or children watch this show, they'll be led to look up these people and learn why they're famous.I cannot talk about this show without paying homage to the late and the great Jim Henson! Jim Henson, I'm just going to put it out there, is one of the small number of celebrities I actually aspire to be like, and you can see why through this show! He is the reason the show is so great! He allowed the other puppeteers to be creative and inventive, and he banked off of their creativity and ideas; he pushed puppetry forward; he became a great actor by making "simple pieces of foam and fabric" real people and characters; he never went for the gut-wrenching jokes, but he took entertainment seriously; he took a form of entertainment that many would call childish and made it appeal to everyone of every age! He accomplished so much in this show and in his entire body of work! I am so upset he passed away before I was born, ensuring I'd never get to meet him here on Earth. I pray I see him in Heaven so I can thank him, not just for a great TV show, but also for a great legacy, and for proving that there's no such thing as impossibility. Through this show, Jim Henson told us we and our dreams and visions will go as far as we're willing to take them. Thank you, Jim Henson. BOOYIKA!
Once you are a Muppet Fan you are always won. As kids now as adults. As you have to love Muppets. Those that don't like Muppets, well what happened to your childhood? You have favorites like Kermit and Miss Piggy of course! As well as Fozzy the Bear, Rolf the Dog, Scooter, and the Swedish chef among the others in the cast.With a guest host each week. As the guest host would have to play the straight man to the whole variety of the craziness of the late Jim Henson's muppets.Still you have to be a kid at heart to love the Muppets and to really invite them not just into your homes but into your lives as well. Once a Muppet Fan, ALWAYS one!
The Muppets Show was both entertainment and education. I remember watching Beverly Sills, the opera singer, and not knowing who she was until many years later. I just remember her hair and her joviality. The Muppets Show was condensed into 30 minutes of pure entertainment where it was shown right before the network's lineup of shows. The Muppets was replaced by the entertainment news shows which is another story. The Muppets Show was always engaging and entertaining to watch. I loved Miss Piggy and Kermit the Frog and the cast of their friends who are puppets. They could sing, dance, and act sometimes better than the humans. I remember the critics in the corner, the chef, and just watching the show as a child.


                
In fact This show exceeds a 10 in more ways than I can Count. This show was such a clean cut humor, that Puts The "clean" humor that you hear now a days to an NC-17 rating. when You see an episode for the first time or have forgotten about an episode( due to possible brain damage, electro shock therapy, or maybe just a good ole penguins blow up in your face as did many of Henson's penguins seemed to do on the show)you never knew what was coming around the corner. Nothing was scripted, and it was just good fun on a Saturday night, with a bowl of popcorn and singing dancing frogs,chickens, and things, And don't forget the whatever(Gonzo)I said it Before and I'll say It Now America went down hill since they left the air and we just have the good memories of our childhood. Thank you Jim Henson for the memories.


                
I grew up watching this show, and now am happy to say I can show my kids.(they love it too, & I've even got my 3 year old singing "Mahnahmahnah") I remember being very excited when it was time for it to come on, and, my mom was happy as well, because she KNEW I was going to behave, or miss out. *chuckle* It was something the entire family could enjoy together, regardless of age.It doesn't even matter that now the sets, costumes, and dialog are all a bit dated- they're STILL hysterical, still relevant, and just as entertaining as they were originally. I wish there was MORE programming like this, instead of todays pap & tripe. :-( Dear departed Mr. Henson- you created a masterpiece, it's pure genius, even to this day. We miss you & love you very much! -Dallas


                
stars: Jim Henson as Kermit the frog, Waldorf, Rowlf, Dr.Teeth, Link Highthrob, Swedish Chef, Nigel(1976, 1978 and up) and others.Frank Oz as Fozzie bear, Miss Piggy(various times in season 1, 2 plus), Sam the Eagle, George the janitor(season 1), Animal, Marvin Suggs and others.Jerry Nelson as Floyd Pepper, Dr. Strangepork, Robin the frog, Lew Zealand(1978 and up), Pops(1980 and up), Camilla, Uncle Deadly(seasons 1-3), Crazy Harry, JP Grosse and others.Dave Goelz as The Great Gonzo, Dr.Bunsen Hunnydew, Zoot the sax player and others.Richard Hunt as Scooter, Wayne(season 1), Statler, Janice the guitarist(1977 and up), Sweetums, Beaker, Miss Piggy(various times in season 1) and others.Steve Whittemire as Rizzo the Rat and Lips (1978 and up)Erin Ozker as Janice(season 1) and Wanda(season 1).John Lovelady as Announcer, Nigel and Crazy Harry(season 1)Louise Gold as Various(1977 and up)This is such a great show! It was a sketch show...with puppets. How cool! Obviously, the star is Kermit who hosts the show along with several others. Miss Piggy is his lover, but he dislikes her. Fozzie's his pal. Gonzo is the freaky whatever with a chicken fettish. Scooter is the geeky right hand man. We have Statler and Waldorf, two old cranks in the balcony. Then we have the Electric Mayhem band led by Dr.Teeth and Floyd. It had many reccuring sketches including Pigs in Space and Veterenarian's Hospital. Every episode had a special guest star human, all who participated in the sketches. It was a show that had several pop culture references, including a Star Wars spoof in almost every episode. Great show...watch it!


                
