Being born in 1978 and growing up as a small child in the late 70's and early 1980's I was a big watcher of "The Muppet Show" it kind of set my path and influenced me with memories! As seeing those cute and lovable little puppet Muppet characters on screen just was a treat and delight for my little eyes. I was so involved with the Muppet genre that I collected the Muppet toys and had figures even having a plush "Kermit the Frog"! And I love the show for the fact that it had a little green frog named Kermit who was so enjoyable to watch because he was smart and did things so right from singing and dancing to telling funny little one liner jokes and doing parody so well by acting out little skits! Plus the other characters were so cute and memorable for the sight of a child to see and remember and it ranged from Miss Piggy, Fozzie the Bear, The Brown Dog, Gonzo, Animal, and the Rat, and the talking pigs and the laughing old men from the balcony. Each episode was done like a play like theater style, plus an audience was always present that the Muppets filmed in front of because the laughter was always heard. Any many many big name stars and entertainers made guest appearances on the show ranging from people like Rita Moreno, Candice Bergen, Phyllis Diller, Vincent Price, Rich Little, Steve Martin, Bernadette Peters, Elton John, Bob Hope, Roy Clark, Alice Cooper, Raquel Welch, Liberace, Sly Stallone, Cheryl Ladd and Brooke Shields now talk about a menu of famous folks! Overall great series for kids that was fun and a delight with joy and it was educational it brought lasting memories for me as "The Muppet Show" was the best!


                
Growing up Muppet-style wasn't a choice, it was mandatory! From corny jokes and wild band members (Animal was my favorite), to grumpy old men booing in the balcony and listening to singing, dancing, and the acting talent of the day, The Muppet Show still holds nostalgic sway for those of us who grew up watching Jim Henson's puppeted cadre. Season three started off with a bang as singer Rita Coolridge graced the show with her amazing voice and actor Kris Kristofferson decided to rough-up a few of the cast. The show really got blazing, though, during episode four when Gilda Radner took a liking to Kermit, much to the chagrin (and karate chop) of Miss Piggy. But the Muppet brigade took a stunning jolt in episode seven when Alice Cooper was the guest star. Playing with the Muppet band, Alice took the show to a whole new level, showing U.S. audiences that puppets can be topical (and controversial?). It was then that The Muppet Show really started to take wing. Actors, musicians, and many other Hollywood talents began showing up in season three. From the voluptuous Rachel Welch and exceptionally talented Harry Bellafonte, to muscle man Sly Stallone and blonde bombshell Cheryl Ladd, the show gained notoriety from new quarters.The amazing thing about The Muppet Show is that kids and adults can both enjoy it, but on totally different levels. Kids will probably like the physical comedy (watching Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and Beaker blow up the lab, or having a dog operate in an episode of Animal Hospital, "A show that has gone to the dogs.") while adults will be amazed at the interspecies attractions between the likes of Kermit and Miss Piggy, or Gonzo (whatever he is) and his chickens (note the plural there; was he a polygamist?) No mention of The Muppet Show would be complete without noting the supporting cast. Two favorites tend to be Waldorf and Statler, the old hecklers that are perched in the balcony and heave insults and boos at the cast. My other personal favorite is Sam the Eagle (so overly-pompous).Digitally remastered just like seasons one and two, the sound and visual qualities on most HD TVs is quite nice but still iffy in places. If you don't have an HDTV, you'll probably still enjoy it, but I'd recommend seeing it in all its digitally intended glory.This latest release has some interesting packaging that I should mention. The cover-image of Fozzie actually has a soft texture that resembles his fur. Animal packaging? And there are some cool extra features, too: "Muppets on Puppets" is a sixty-minute feature. Hosted by Jim Henson, it looks at the early formation of the Muppets. A rare feature that appeared first in 1969. Great Muppet history for those that want to be "in-the-know." "A Company of Players" is a behind the scenes look at the puppeteers. The fascinating work of master puppeteers comes to light. For those that don't want the magic spoiled, you might want to pass on this one."Muppets Commercials" are a couple of Purina Dog Chow commercials that are hysterically funny.A Trailer for Disney's upcoming release "Wall-E" and an advertisement for the new 2-Disc and Blu-Ray editions of "The Nightmare Before Christmas." The Muppet Show ran for five years (1976 through 1980) and here in season three they were hitting an incredibly smooth stride. All the cast, crew, and guests appeared relaxed and to have enjoyed themselves immensely. The Alice Cooper episode is a must see, at the very least. Unfortunately there is no Blu-Ray disc release of any of the series, but I have a feeling they're coming. And if they don't come out in the near future, I'm gonna send out Miss Piggy to find out why. Hear that Sony?


                
This is a quality and genius puppet show. Jim Henson's department has created some lovable and laughable puppet characters in this hilarious show. He combines music, small humour, large humour, slapstick and brilliant puppetry to make really good entertainment. The voice artists are also brilliant at making the characters come alive. There's Jim Henson himself playing the star Kermit the Frog, Dr. Teeth, Waldorf, Newsman and many more. Frank Oz (also famous for Yoda in Star Wars) as the irrepressible Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Animal, the Swedish Chef, Sam the Eagle, Janice and many more. Jerry Nelson as Camilla the chicken, Floyd, Robin the Frog (Kermit's nephew), Crazy Harry, Dr. Strangepork, Lew Zealand, Rowlf and many more. Richard Hunt as Miss Piggy (when Frank Oz was busy), Scooter, Statler, Sweetums, Janice (when Frank Oz was busy), Beaker and many more. Steve Whitmire appeared as Rizzo the Rat. And Dave Goelz as The Great Gonzo, Dr. Bunsen Honeydew, Zoot the Sax Player, Beauregard, Fozzie Bear (when Frank Oz was busy) and many more. They had some fantastic guests throughout, e.g. Sir Roger Moore, John Cleese, Steve Martin, Bruce Forsyth, Emmy nominated Peter Sellers, Liza Minnelli, Sir Elton John, Alice Cooper, Mark Hamill and many more. It's just sad that Jim Henson and Richard Hunt died, they really made the show. It won 3 BAFTAs (from 9 nominations) and it won 4 Emmys (from 21 nominations). Miss Piggy was number 29 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters, the programme was number 8 on ITV: 50 Greatest Shows, number 2 on The 100 Greatest Kids' TV Shows, and The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good!
