In my opinion Sergio Leone is one of the best directors ever. But Once upon a time in the West is his failure. Whenever I watch a Leone movie, I am prepared for a slow pace - and am surprised that it is actually steady. OutW really is too slow. There is no typical Leone tension build up. The final shoot out is a meager copy of the two previous ones with Lee van Cleef involved. Henry Fonda is not a convincing villain like Van Cleef and Volonte (Fonda - and Leone - took revenge though with My name is Nobody). Charles Bronson is not underacting like Clint Eastwood - Bronson is simply not acting. Wallach is missing - I cannot even remember what kind of character Cheyenne is. There is no character development. There are no tricks, black humour, double and triple crosses. In fact there is hardly a story. I am happy to learn, that I am not the only one to prefer the Dollar movies. I also prefer all the movies Leone directed after this on, as far as I have seen them (the most). In fact I have been thinking of rating OutW with a 1. But that is not fair. The opening scene with the three hit men waiting for the train is absolutely brilliant, with Leone's typical eye for the detail.


                
This film was beautifully filmed with impressive scenery and well-designed sets against a beautiful musical score. The story line is pretty standard, but okay. Water rights, railroad coming in, new town, etc. However this film can't quite decide whether it wants to be a horse opera or a soap opera. At over three hours it's something like watching a full season of Days of our Lives meets The Young and the Restless in the Old West. A good half of that three plus hours is spent on close ups of the different characters staring at each other, or into mirrors, or just staring with gritty expressions on their weathered faces.Henry Fonda gets to show us how bad a bad guy he can be, but that's just not the Henry Fonda we knew and loved and it didn't really work for me. But he was really bad. I'll give him that. Overall I found this film very tedious and I had to watch it in short increments or I'd never have got through it at all.


                
I rarely leave reviews and I certainly don't like leaving negative ones, but I can't believe that there is anyone who thinks that this is a great move, non-the-less a great one. And yet, this film (if you want to call it that) is on the top 250. You're kidding me right? If you think that a movie is great just because of cinematography and production design then maybe you will like this movie, because both of these are excellent. But if you want to actually be involved in the story, then this is a dreadful film. You don't know who characters are or what they want until you reach a running time when most films are over, and if you can get involved with them or the story, (because you can't have a story with out any characters) then how is this engaging? The pacing is bad. The cartoon characters, pregnant pauses and most goofy music are laughable. I actually normally love Ennio Morricone in some of his later work and is actually one of my favorite composers, so the decisions come down to Leone to use comical music as well as heartfelt music during a rape scene! (Which isn't meant to be ironic, or if it is, it doesn't work) Nothing in this movie makes the remotest bit of sense, and is really just an exercise in creating a reality that never existed. People have gotten colder not warmer than in history because they have been desensitized, and this concept that everyone in the west was in a free-for-all of unbridled violence is just rubbish.Ultimately, I think that some people watch movies and others get involved in the movie. And this movie clearly caters to the former, because there is nothing here to get involved in. Leone has done some decent work in his other fable ONCE UPON A TIME IN America which is a great film in terms of characters, but ultimately disappointing in terms of story. So to me, the problem here is that Leone is a better directer than writer and you can't fake writing.


                
You have never seen such an array of tan, greasy faces, darkened by make up to a point that's positively Polynesian. It sets off the glistening white teeth we see during the infrequent grins but we don't see many grins. The default facial expression is the meaningful scowl. The most amusing display of meaningful scowls in at the very beginning, when three grimy dudes in long flapping dusters, including Western icons Jack Elam and Woody Strode, gather at the railroad station, waiting to kill the good guy, Charles Bronson. (Fat chance.) The director, Sergio Leone, gives us a long sequence in which Elam has a duel of wits with a fly that insists on landing on his chin or his lip. He manages to capture the dim-witted fly in the barrel of his Colt, caps the muzzle with a finger tip, and listens with delight as the fly buzzes angrily about inside the pistol.Another good scene. A henchman is sitting alongside the open window of a moving train. A cowboy boot descends from above. The henchman gapes at it. The toe of the boot turns towards the henchman's face and explodes. There is a pistol inside and the bullet forms a neat hole in the astonished miscreant's head.These and most other important scenes are wordless, surprising in that Bernardo Bertolucci was one of the writers.There are some impressive shots of Monument Valley. The production design is evocative and the set dressing impeccable. Leone has a distinctive way of framing his shots. Somebody's boots may be in the foreground, while in the distance another figure slowly draws back the flaps of his jacket to uncover his holsters.That's about it. I've tried to like this thing for years because Sergio Leone is admired by some friends whose opinions I respect. No can do. I don't find it funny. I don't find it involving. I really never cared much about who was or was not killed, which is always a bad sign. The movie seemed like a parody of a Western, with all the conventions drawn with absurd precision. And although Bertolucci wrote it, it isn't until AFTER the final face off between good guy Bronson and bad guy Fonda that we find out Bronson's motive for nattering Fonda. The motive, and the event that generates it, pops out of nowhere, flapping its wings like a stage magician's dove. It has nothing to do with the rest of the plot.However, don't let this stop you from watching it. I gather my opinion is a minority one, as is so often the case.
I was going to check this out after I heard it was Sergio Leone's masterpiece. Boy they were wrong. The Good The Bad and The Ugly stands the test of time because it engages the audience with it's memorable performances and scenes, and a simple plot.. "Film buffs" claim this pretentious, three hour bore-fest a better film than TGTBATU. Fortunately, the film had good aspects that save this movie from becoming trash. Bronson, Fonda, and Bobards play very interesting and likable characters that had my investment. The opening scene is the only moment in the movie that resembles the wit and style of the Dollars trilogy. Plus the soundtrack is really good. The bad part is, the plot is SO predictable, which doesn't help its three hour running time and extremely slow pace. Claudia Cardinale is just beauty. She doesn't do much which sucks because she's the "lead". If you want good Leone films, stick with the Dollars trilogy(1964-66), Duck You Sucker!(1971), and Once Upon A Time In America(1984).


                
A perfect example of what happens when there is little or no post-production editing..at least half this ponderous mess should have been left on the edit room floor..Leone's obsession with trivial nuance- such as the fly on Elam's face- also helped ruin what was actually a decent plot...Bronson playing the harmonica was also a stupid gimmick which was about as believable as Santa Clause..great cast..some very fine scoring...some wonderful scenery....some very good dialogue..all brought to it's knees by poor editing and stupid gimmicks...too bad...apparently there are many that feel this was some sort of masterpiece..but it would be an excellent teaching tool in a movie-making class about what happens when a film is not edited


                
Slight spoiler herein.I found this to be a very poor film.  It had plot developments that either didn't make sense or weren't explained (the widow sleeping with her husband's self-admitted murderer and enjoying it), the pacing was slow (to me this doesn't affect a good movie but makes a bad one worse), and the moods and atmospheres being set in many scenes seemed contrived rather than natural.  The story itself wasn't even very captivating either.  I've heard this described via hearsay as being the best Western ever made, and I don't understand that at all.
In the West men take their time. There's nothing hurrying them, as every day is the same as the other, and what cannot be done today, can be done tomorrow. So nothing presses you to answer quickly, or even talk. You can think a lot before speaking, and the other will wait for you. There are two things that do pass quickly: bullets and trains. The first one was the symbol of power (the power of disrupting the monotonous life of the West), until the latter came. As it's beautifully said by Frank: sitting behind Morton's desk feels almost like holding a gun, but more powerful. Morton's Locomotive brought, above all, History and Progress to the West. Time started to run, and bullets cannot stop time.I think that what amuses us from the Wild West is exactly that: the struggle to stop time, to conquest the unconquerable: eternity. The fight between that pre-Modern time where the most powerful ruled (like the adjective Wild said: it was the Law of the Jungle), and the unstoppable Locomotive of History; that feeling of emptiness of knowing that what was once the Reign of tough guys like Charles Bronson, today there's nothing but Highways and Casinos.Once upon a time in the West is the perfect archetype of Spaghetti Westerns, and it has all the tropes a Western should have: the tough, thoughtful good guy, the secondary good guy, ugly, that says everything the protagonist doesn't, the bad guy who's almost as good shooting as the good guy, the coward businessman who wants to build the railroad to the Pacific at any cost, the hot woman that makes the plot move forward (not quite the damsel in distress, but another as patriarchal trope: the hot woman who doesn't mind f*cking her way out of life, that seems strong and independent but that in the end is always submitted to men, just in another way). It has a final pistol gunfight where the quickest to shot wins, it has amazing trademark music that marks the appearance of the good guy across the movie.But it's slow. It's damn slow. Perhaps it just wanted to inspire the feelings I describe at the beginning about time in the West, perhaps it just owes itself to a time when going to the cinema was quite an event, and you could keep people marveled in front of a big screen for three hours. Today, however, it's not so good that after the first 30 minutes nothing has happened and only a few lines have been delivered. Today, and unlike many other old movies, this film is not entertaining, and it stands only as a museum piece.


                
The magnificent opening set piece -surely one of the greatest in the history of cinema- promises a masterpiece. Alas this promise is never realised and the film descends into rambling, long-winded and often confusing sequences, usually visually stunning in themselves, but containing huge leaps both in logic and time.There is much that is left unanswered by the end of the film and what explanations there are often are unsatisfactory. It barely seems plausible, to take a small example, that the newly arrived wife would choose to stay alone in a deserted cottage knowing her family has just been murdered there and that the murderers were still on the prowl, both in terms of her safety and the sheer morbidity of it. I get the impression that Sergio Leone cobbled together this rather ropey story around a few set pieces he had in mind and used his considerable cinematic artistry to try to hide the plot holes.There are too numerous head-scratching moments to mention but one of the most notable involves Jason Robards as Cheyenne. He escapes (offscreen) apparently by murdering his prison guard? Its not too clear. This homicidal tendency then disappears and he becomes a kindly figure. Later he allows himself to be handed in by Bronson for $5,000 although we never discover what he is wanted for, presumably a serious crime? Again, off screen, he escapes from captivity. I presume we are not shown this since it would involve the killing of law men? Or maybe the film was already WAY too long? Then he seems to be pursuing the widow. Bronson leaves, then he leaves? Then he and Bronson are riding off together and he just falls down and dies of a wound that has not been mentioned till that point?Worth watching for a few great set pieces. But the narrative's all over the place.
Because my father thought this movie was absolutely the best movie ever,so I decided to go and see it.Well, I didn't like what I saw. It seemed like they would go on about something for centuries. I almost fell asleep, I really thought it was boring.But allright, to give my father at least some credit for his taste ,I thought the end of the movie was rather good so there you go: at least I said something positive about the movie.


                
I give this film 4 out of ten stars because I thought it was overrated. spaghetti western database has this film as #2 best spaghetti western of all time and I see all kinds of reviews about how great it is . I was not following the story with eagerness.to many of these guys look to much alike where I cant remember whos supposed to be the bad guy and whos supposed to be the good guy.chares bronsons harmonica was a good tune setting the first time it was in the movie but it plays over and over again through out the movie countless times. making it played out and no good anymore. the close ups on Charles bronsons face and peter fonda are also in the same category at first its good cinematic detail but then time after time again and again its too much .Now the good of this movie for being made in 1968 the picture quality is great the sets are really good the ambiance I feel it dose a really good job of taking you back to the old west its like your really there. Claudia cardinale .this movie was made 15 years before I was born.and I watched the whole thing so maybe 5 stars no 4 stars final answer
It could have been a really good film but he just loved his harmonica to much for me


                
Aside from the 3-8minutes of no talking the film feels like a car trip through kansas. The artistic value of the film is the only thing worth mentioning as there were excellent camera shots of the lamdscape. Everything else was so drab and bland. The cinematic equivalent of watching paint dry. A movie that has the viewer begging for it to end.


                
Damn slow! I have watches many classic movies but this one needs lots of patience.the story is not great.I gave this 4 stars because i while i was watching i got to know about western senari.


                
This not a good movie. It is badly written. And badly edited. I do not know why people like it. 8.6 for this crap. Really? This is a 4. This movie is very overrated. It seems like you do not have to know of to write or edit well to make popular movie. This is cheese and cliché. If you think watching people stare at each other for a long time is entertainment that is your business. But I do not think so. I just find it boring. This does good actors. And they were wasting there time. Do not waste your time. And do not waste your money. Do not see this movie.


                
