I won't claim to have the ability to say anything new about this movie. It's been around for nearly fifty years, and is widely regarded as not just one the best Spaghetti Westerns of all time, but one of the best Westerns full stop. And it's not hard to see why: an incredible soundtrack, strong performances from the entire main cast, some surprisingly good humour and funny one-liners, a few tense sequences, a well-told story that doesn't rely on excessive dialogue or exposition, and consistently amazing cinematography and direction throughout. At least half the frames in this movie would probably make good paintings- no exaggeration.It's probably the marriage of the great visuals and soundtrack that make Once Upon a Time in the West work as well as it does. There's a good number of dramatic camera movements and interesting reveals that are tied up perfectly with the music- almost like some kind of singing-free musical at some points.Sergio Leone was one of the greatest directors of all time. It's a real shame that he apparently never got the kind of recognition he gets nowadays while he was still alive. Out of all his films, there's a strong argument to be made for this one being the closest to perfect. Honestly, there's not a lot that could be changed to make it better. My biggest direct gripe is the way the title pops up at the very end of the film, and rotates in a full circle before it disappears. It looks really cheesy, and comes close to killing the mood the otherwise extremely strong ending creates. While we're on complaints, another minor one would be that I want to say the film feels a little too long- maybe about 10 to 15 minutes. But at the same time, I wouldn't really know what to cut. Every scene is so well-constructed and orchestrated, and there's always something interesting to look at or listen to or think about, so I'm not really sure what should be cut. It's a pretty weak complaint, I know. Like I said, this thing's close to perfect.The Good The Bad and The Ugly might be a tiny bit more entertaining, and Once Upon a Time in America might have a slightly better soundtrack and stronger emotional moments (for me, personally), but it's still really hard to find much to complain about here. Absolutely recommended to any Western fan, and it gets a little better every time I watch it (four for me now, and counting).


                
As a fan of Westerns, I saw this film many times in the early 90s. Saw this recently again on a DVD aft many years. The plot- Claudia Cardinale arrives at her ranch, to find that her husband has been murdered by hired gun Henry Fonda. Mysterious gunman Charles Bronson wants an appointment with Fonda. Bronson teams up with outlaw Jason Robards to help protect Cardinale n her ranch from Fondas evil intentions. There are long scenes where you get close shots of a person's face. Sergio Leone loves the stare-down, and you can see it in virtually all of his films. In this movie he allows the camera to linger longer than ever before. You get those quiet scoreless scenes where the natural sounds of the environment are greatly exaggerated. Leone's opponents take a long time to feel each other out before they act. One may find the long stretches of silence and inaction tedious n boring. Honestly, even i found some scenes boring, especially the opening scene. Henry Fonda is terrific. No one expected him to play such a ruthless and brutal killer. Bronson was decent but Jason Robards was much better with his tip on guys patting females bottom n the tip on don't get shot by a person who doesn't know to shoot. One of the best part bah the film was Ennio Morricone's score, especially the recurring harmonica music during the final closing fight. This is Morricone's best moment in a long, treasured career. I was surprised to know that the story was written by Dario Argento.


                
In the annals of western film lore, there are good and bad films. This is one of the finest. Because "Once Upon A Time in The West" is such a remarkable film, it is hard to define what makes it so memorable. The story centers on a beautiful former prostitute called Jill McBain (Claudia Cardinale) who arrives to assume the role of wife to a stubborn, crazy, red-headed Irishman with a dream. Waiting, instead is tragedy and 'Mr. Morton' who is a powerful, but ailing land grabbing baron (Gabriele Ferzetti) who desires to crush everything and everyone who stands in his way to reach the Pacific ocean with his railroad. To help him is an equally ruthless gunfighter named Frank (Henry Fonda; the success of this movie owes much to Fonda who plays a very convincing heavy) who has been removing obstacles for years and now targets the McBain family for death and that includes Jill. Unfortunately for Frank, he has accrued many enemies over the years with one particular, mysterious and deadly Harmonica playing stranger seeking revenge. Frank arranges for three of his best and fastest gun hands to meet and eliminate the stranger at the train-station. Joining the instrument playing stranger is an unpredictable, half-breed, renegade, who is a notorious gunfighter called 'Cheyenne.' ( Jason Robards ) The entire film is a triumph to the superb direction of Sergio Leone, who christens each major character with their own theme song. Each theme was created by Ennio Morricone and when the character makes an entrance, the theme prepares the audience for mood change, drama, action, and lifelong memories. Special guest appearances, by Woody Strode, Jack Elam, Keenan Wynn and Lionel Stander add to the classic nature of this excellent story. ****


                
"Once upon a Time in the West" is Leone's masterpiece and certainly one of the best Westerns of all time... It is beautifully shot, perfectly cast, ambitious, erotic, humorous and wonderfully scored by Leone's regular composer Ennio Morricone, whose haunting melodies are just as important as the widely separated dialog occurring on the action..The film opens with an extreme close-ups of Jack Elam, Woody Strode and Lionel Stander waiting at a station for Charles Bronson... Henry Fonda has sent them to kill him...The railroad wants a property for its water well belonging to the newly widowed Claudia Cardinale, a fancy lady from New Orleans who just arrived in Flagstone and learns about the tragedy... We would come to understand, much later, Claudia Cardinale's role as the bearer of water, life, and continuity to the civilization of the New West...Fonda, a despicable hired gun, kills her husband and orders, without a twinge of guilt, the slaughter of the entire family, innocents women and children...Henry Fonda, in a chilling performance, plays the cold-blooded murderer, the most vicious villain in Westerns history to ever ride the big country... the blue ice-eyed child killer, gunning down a 9-year old boy...Bronson as 'The Man' is like Clint Eastwood 'The Man With No Name,' with only one thing in common: they are the most ruthless heroes in Westerns history sharing the same character in their quality 'not' to say much in their need of emotions, in their fast draw, in their disinterest in women, in their air of mystery and in their macabre sense of humor...Their differences are also very clear: 'The Man With No Name' has no past whatsoever, and 'The Man' is motivated by revenge to settle an old personal score... Claudia Cardinale plays Jill, the well-proportioned, husky-voiced beauty, the lady, the businesswoman, the maker of coffee involved with Fonda in an incredible perverse erotic sequence...The blood, the violence, the humor, the several gunfights and the final showdown have been constants in Leone's Westerns since "A Fistful of Dollars"...The highlights of his movie are so many: Leone's overwhelming shot when he raises his camera over the Flagstone train station office revealing the sprawling town; when he replaces a shot of a smoking gun with a shot of a smoking train; when he uses close-ups instead of dialog to reveal what a character is thinking; and the striking use of his extreme close-up in the final shootout... Leone builds up tension by slowly circling his two characters, focusing with his camera on their eyes, hands and guns while the level of the music is raised to evoke the action... Leone's film is a brave epic Western, extremely violent, immensely powerful... It's above all fable and fantasy, as the desire for revenge is childish and fruitless... It is the essence of a great filmmaker...
With a style very much unlike that of his previous three Westerns, Once Upon a Time in the West takes a long time to tell this epic and powerful tale of three men all connected by their past and all destined to connect in the future. The acting is universally excellent with Fonda playing a very uncharacteristic part, but since he is such a great actor he has no problem filling the shoes of the merciless gunslinger, Frank. Jason Robards is great as the outlaw with a good heart, Cheyenne; and Charles Bronson is very Eastwood-like as a man known only as Harmonica with a mysterious past and a quick draw. The central character, though, is that of the beautiful Claudia Cardinale as Jill, a widow seeking revenge.Sergio Leone used a slower, more romantic style for this Western, but he still was able to produce some great images and a story that will forever be remembered. He doesn't deal too much with character development, rather showing us their actions and letting that speak for themselves. And, of course we cannot forget the score by Ennio Moriconne. Though not as memorable as The Good, Bad and the Ugly, it adds a great deal to the film. Certainly one of the best Westerns ever made, this is film making at a very high degree.


                
To watch this again after so many years and after so much has changed in movie making, what a joy. The intro scene itself is a work of cinematic genius. Too bad most these days don't have the patience or appreciation for the plot making and cinematography these days. If you appreciate excellent camera work, scene making and soundtrack working together, I can't imagine you would be disappointed in this movie.


                
These two made one hell of a team, Leone with his marvelous directing/story telling and Morricone with his music. That HARMONCIA MAN theme tells you everything you need to know about Charles Bronson's character without him having to say a word (the same is true of all the characters.) This theme stays with you long after the last note has sounded, and it depicts pain and a desire for justice, and a determination to get it one way or the other. (Man, don't that harmonica sound like a wail of pain!!! It gives me chills every time I hear it.) The ending of this movie is perfect justice. Talk about make the punishment fit the crime! This gives a whole new meaning to that phrase.My only gripe about this movie is what they did with Jill's character. At first, you're made to feel sorry for her because she comes up and finds her family murdered and she is in danger of losing her home, possibly her life. But when she makes love to Frank (Henry Fonda) later on in the movie, (oh, hell, let's be honest. She didn't make love to him, she f**ked him.)I lost my respect and sympathy for her. Instead of being a widow mourning for her dead husband, she seemed more like a common slut who would do anything to save her own neck and to hold on to her late husband's property. I'm not saying there is anything wrong with this story line, but if we're supposed to feel sympathy for Jill, this scene kind of spoils that effect. Cheyenne and Harmonica were more worthy of respect than she was after that scene, although Harmonica has a score to settle big time and I found myself rooting for him throughout the whole movie.My favorite western. 9 out of 10.
Its odd how one comes to a film. I saw this one nearly 40 years ago in an edition that was chopped up. The sound and score was reprocessed and muted. It was terrible. I lumped it in with the Clint Eastwood trilogy. Those movies were fun in the manner of an then new extreme style. But the concept was thin and knowing that one was an exact copy of a Kurosawa samurai movie sort of took the American link out of them. (That specific film was remade again starring Bruce Willis and was superior.)Now after all this time, I come back to it and find it whole, a new thing. Its wonderful. Its as wonderful as advertised. There are all sorts of joys. One is the many references to ordinary, series westerns. Another is the meditative pace; a sort of an anti-action movie rooted in place and place-derived intents. These two things alone would place it as high as IMDb readers have chosen. But there are two other things that matter more to me. The first is obvious: the sound design. Few filmmakers seem to want to leverage sound much. Malick is one, but the idea there is to make an independent layer over the images. Here, the sound saturates the images. In my experience, it is unique in its effectiveness. And that's one of the other shocks: I don't think I would have been able to appreciate it as much as a young man. I've been watching films more lucidly for only a few years now and though all the other components here are ordinary but perhaps extended, this strikes me as wholly new.The other thing probably requires one to have gone through a couple stupid American wars. The second one makes all the difference, because the first was still based on the notion of doing good even if the means were bankrupt. Now, a world can look at westerns and not automatically make the John Ford connection: that Monument Valley and open spaces mean freedom. Frontier gunplay and violence automatically invoked populist justice. It took this movie to break things. And it took this long for them to break. Westerns are a notation for America, a story about an accidental nation. A collection of simple notes for us to grasp. This movie is about westerns in precisely the same way. I study these constructions and nearly always say that the underlying or original goal is to increase the viewer's engagement. But this case is different: the layers provide a distance. It allows us to see the notation about the notation about what will always be a notation: national identity.Of the sections, the opening is the best. At some point when the web grows to allow clips to be annotated online and ranked separate from the movie, that sequence will rate very high. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
This one only gets better with each viewing. Leone's masterful storytelling and Morricone's crazy, beautiful, epic soundtrack; desperate, haunted faces that look like the barren landscapes the story is set in and a plot that unfolds with impeccable pacing to culminate in THE ultimate western finale. As in Leone's previous films, music isn't just used to add to the atmosphere but is essential to the story, or perhaps even more: Morricone's main musical theme plays the actual role of a (or rather: the) protagonist in the film. Anyone who thought that the so called "Spaghetti Westerns" were nothing but cheap, violent B-movies had to reconsider after seeing this film. It doesn't get any better than this: this is movie history; iconic, classic, unforgettable, epic - for this film, I just run out of words.


                
One of the first scenes of this film is Jack Elam playing with a fly running on his face.After a while he manages to put the fly inside the barrel of his gun, which he is closing with his finger. There are two long scenes when Jason Robards comes in, looks at Claudia Cardinale and after a while asks for a coffee. The first time she does not know how to do it, the second time she learned. These scenes seem to last ages. The showdown between Fonda and Bronson takes about 15 minutes. Once you accept this slow rhythm you are in for quite a good western. Leone pays homage to High Noon, Shane, Pursued, The Searchers, and specially to John Ford by showing Monument Valley. Here he goes for the super production epic style, many scenes made me think of Gone With The Wind, Lawrence of Arabia etc... I do not think of this film as his masterpiece, I would leave that for The Good The Bad and The Ugly, because to like OUTITW you have to acquire the taste which is not what happens with TGTBTU. Comparing the characters of the two films Charles Bronson would be the good, Henry Fonda the very bad (next to him Lee Van Cleef is an angel) and Jason Robards a bandit that is almost a good guy. Claudia Cardinale is the main character. Try to see it in DVD with progressive scan.


                
Once Upon A Time In The West is directed by Sergio Leone and stars Charles Bronson, Claudia Cardinale, Jason Robards & Henry Fonda. Leone co-wrote the screenplay with Sergio Donati, while the story was provided by Dario Argento and Bernardo Bertolucci. Ennio Morricone scores the music and cinematography is from Tonino Delli Colli.After finishing The Good, the Bad and the Ugly in 1966, Sergio Leone felt he had done all he wanted to do with the Western genre. Thankfully that wasn't to be the case as he was lured back into Oaterville to make the unique and quite superb C'era una volta il West in 1968. Greeted with negative reviews on its release in America, it was a financial flop. But in Europe the film was richly received and took the box offices by storm. Time has showed the film to have risen above cult status to be widely acknowledged as one of the finest Western film's of all time.Everything about the film is bigger and bolder than previous Leone works. Opening with an almost silent ten minute sequence that has become legendary, the film follows four characters as they dovetail towards the reckoning. Harmonica (Bronson), Frank (Fonda), Jill McBain (Cardinale) & Cheyenne (Robards), all linked by death, and with each one represented in the narrative by a piece of music. Leone clinically weaves the four stories into one operatic whole. Not all of it makes perfect sense, which stops it being the masterpiece many consider it being. But its observations of Western mysticism, capitalism and progression of time; and with scores to of course be settled too, it makes for a fine story nestling in amongst the beautiful treats for the eyes and ears.While Leone clearly homages the genre and pays tribute to the old America (you will lose count spotting the Western film steals), his film is ultimately very much a pastiche piece. But he gets away with that lack of freshness (the story at the core mirrors Johnny Guitar for example) due to the unique structure. It's meticulously paced as the characters are fleshed out to the max, sometimes even without dialogue. Smart directing as Leone makes the story more richer and weightier in substance. Morricone's score is magnificent and so is Colli's photography, with the latter's shooting of Monument Valley good enough to have featured in John Ford oeuvre. While the casting is inspiring, notably Fonda as a villain (the impact shocked many back in the day).I can't call it a masterpiece because it does lift from many other sources, but it's darn close to being a perfect movie. One thing is for sure, that in it's uncut form the film is a work of art. Where repeat viewings keep rewarding and never dilute the enjoyment. 9/10


                
Sergio Leone's epic pastafest from 1968 is the closest the stalwart director ever got to making a western. Yeah sure the dollars movies were westerns, but they satirised American horse operas in Leone's unique tongue-in-cheek style. Duck You Sucker is not really a western. It's a buddy actioner which criticised war, patriotism and social hierarchy. Finally we have Once Upon A Time In America. Something of a labour of love for Leone, this depression set crime epic would be an object of obsession for the final part of his life. With West, dear old Sergio was merely tipping his hat to his inspiration, the American western. A love letter to Hollywood directors like John Ford and Howard Hawks, West is comprised of subtle references to several American westerns. However, there is only one variation. With these references, Leone has taken the conventions of the Hollywood western and reversed them, giving birth to mind blowing authenticity. Still, Leone's immortal style remains and the symbolism of the dollars trilogy is present.Allow me to explain further. At the film's outset, we have 3 villains waiting for a fourth at a train station. While waiting, their appearance frightens the conductor. Now, obviously there are several variations, but think High Noon(1952). At the beginning of Fred Zinnemann's classic, 3 villains wait at a train station for a fourth. These nice fellows also make the conductor wary of them. Now there are 2 differences. In High Noon, the train doesn't arrive for at least an hour, whereas in West it arrives within 10-15 minutes. Secondly, High Noon has our 3 villains waiting for their leader, bad guy Frank Miller, but West has the 3 baddies waiting for the film's hero, Harmonica. As with Leone's other westerns, symbolism is abundant. When you strip away the complex plot, West tells the story of the expanding railroad. The construction of the railroad represents life and how it is eternally progressing. However, the progression of life always has and always will be wrought with different evils. These evils take the form of the corrupt railroad tycoon Morton and his hired gun Frank. Still, in spite of these evils, life continues to progress unaffected and when the evils are rid of, a new evil always rears it's ugly head. When Morricone's trancelike score is combined with slow, uninterrupted shots of stillness, West feels like a beautiful dream, or is it a nightmare?. You decide.West has an ingredient that the dollars trilogy and DYS lacked, a strong female lead. Claudia Cardinale was excellent, like a breath of fresh air. Henry Fonda was deliciously menacing as Frank, probably the most robust role he's ever played. Charles Bronson made for a staunch anti hero as Harmonica and Jason Robards nearly steals the show as the tough outlaw, Cheyenne. Fore reasons I can't quite explain, Gabriele Ferzetti owned the movie as the crippled railroad baron Morton. Personally, I believe West to have the greatest musical score ever written for a western, Morricone's finest hour!. Composed in stunning, majestic style, "Jill's Theme" alludes to a resplendent utopia away from the violent filth of the frontier. "The Man With A Harmonica" is the ultimate soundtrack for a showdown. The piercing shrieks of a harmonica juxtaposed with the fuzz of an electric guitar and the soaring tempo of an orchestra is eerily atmospheric, evoking exquisitely the ritual of the final duel. "Cheyenne's Theme" is catchy and you will be whistling it long after the credits have rolled. As you would expect from a Leone film, West has the blessing of consummate cinematography. The penetrating zooms and close-ups of Harmonica and Frank were proficient and the infinite shots of silence dazzling. While it was still commendably tight, the suspense was a little too tenacious. The slow build ups were nearly as taut as they were in the dollars trilogy, but the intense explosions of violence came too soon and too fast. The tension just wasn't as sharp as it should have been. It also wasn't as copious as it was in the dollars movies, therefore some parts of the film were slightly desiccated. In a brief showdown in the town's street, there are a couple of positively spectacular stunts!. I'm surprised stuntman Fabio Testi wasn't paralysed for the rest of his life. A queasy flashback intercut into the climatic duel between Harmonica and Frank provided the confrontation with fierce bite.What else can I say?. If you love any kind of western you must see this movie. Just falling short of the glory of the dollars trilogy and Duck You Sucker due to some acute flaws, West is a cast iron classic nonetheless. 9/10.
This film is one of the greats! It is an epic western from the acclaimed filmmaker Sergio Leone. This is the first film of his that I've been able to see from the filmmaker, and I've heard that his film "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" is even better! But, as of now, I've only seen "Once Upon a Time in the West".The film is a classic epic spaghetti western, with great atmosphere, great performances, and, of course, an excellent soundtrack by Ennio Morricone! All of this elements coming together create a beautiful, jaw-dropping, and powerful experience that has deserved all of the praise that it has received.


                
The man with a Harmonica (Charles Bronson) arrives at a desolate train station. He's met by three gunmen sent by Frank (Henry Fonda) and he promptly kills them. Jill (Claudia Cardinale) is a new young bride from New Orleans. She arrives to live with her husband Brett McBain and his family in an isolated desert homestead he calls Sweatwater. She finds the whole McBain family massacred. Cheyenne (Jason Robards) is the prime suspect but he joins her along with Harmonica to seek revenge on the real killers, Frank and his men who are working for the railroad.This is a western dripping with the Sergio Leone style. The story is simple. It's a lot of attitude. The movie starts with the great Harmonica arrival scene. Woody Strode and Jack Elam are so great that I wish they survived to stay in the movie. A minor problem is that the opening scene is so great that the rest of the movie struggles at times to return to that level.


                
"Once Upon a Time in the West" has been recently released in a special 2 disc set, and it's about time. The movie gets better every time you watch it. Sergio Leone's directing is incredible, the pacing and suspense are unparalleled. He squeezes every speck out of every scene without dragging them out. His choice of Henry Fonda as the bad guy and his sales pitch to get him are well worth it. At the time, nobody could imagine Fonda as a bad guy. Charles Bronson is perfect as the enigmatic "Harmonica", bringing his craggy face, economical delivery and a sense of decency to the role that's hard to imagine anyone else could bring. Jason Robards portrays Cheyenne with dash and layers of larceny, chivalry, humor and ruthlessness that bring this complicated character to life. Claudia Cardinale is, of course, beautiful, and gives Jill McBain different aspects, former lady of the night, apparent gold-digger, disappointed and too soon widow, clever seeker of the truth of her husband's dream, used and abused woman and finally friendly hostess for Cheyenne and the railroad workers. The supporting cast is terrific. Paolo Stoppa is sarcastic, crusty but also concerned for Jill when they find her new family murdered. Lionel Stander is great as a saloon keeper who engages Jill in conversation, and when it's interrupted, picks up as if only seconds had elapsed rather than several tense minutes. Jack Elam and Woody Strode are cold eyed killers. Keenan Wynn has a nice cameo as the sheriff and auctioneer. The score is majestic, gritty and perfect, the individual themes convey more than dialogue could. The final showdown resolves a mystery surrounding "Harmonica" and Frank. The final scene as Cheyenne dies and Jill brings water to the rail gangs is a neat summation of the West that will never be the same again. Harmonica's observation that man is a vanishing race being replaced by soulless machines and corporations is an apt eulogy for the men living on the edge of the law. Just about a perfect movie.
"Once upon a time in the west" is a classic of the legendary western film Sergio Leone which his greatest sin was to die so soon, here we have a brilliant picture, it is warm at the same time with many open plans Leone transmits only way the feeling of each scene, the characters are not heroic, beautiful, with tufts and bright white skin, no, quite the contrary their characters are dirty, sweaty, with disgusting aspect, after all, we are in the old west, and Leone gives unique features to each of its characters, this fly in the opening scene the harmonica Charles Bronson, through the crutches Snaky and gnashing of Frank teeth, we recognize all the characters from afar, and with a soundtrack composed by the master Ennio Morricone everything gets better, the track sound is perfect, conveying all feeling of the old west, with exciting music extremely melancholic, sound mixing to not fall behind, all shots are scary, here the weapon and its effects are not trivialized, the script is great, in particular time loses a bit of pace, but nothing to interfere directly, it is complete with many characters, but all of these characters are well developed, even those who have 5 minutes of screen, the performances are reasonable, in this movie we do not have big stars like in the trilogy of dollars, no performance surprises, but are far from disappointed, "once upon a time in the west" is a classic that should be attended by all and revered by lovers of Italian Western.


                
This is the fourth film taken from Sergio Leone's Dollars series. Once Upon a Time in the West is a fantastic masterpiece. The slow pace of the film only serves to increase the amazement at the beautiful presented scenery. The music score provided Ennio Morricone is just amazing, its so powerful its almost chilling in nature. The character played by Henry Fonda thrills me every time I watch this film and the music that is associated to the character again chilling. The character that Henry Fonda plays is Frank and he is ice cold. Henry's eyes are such a vivid blue as the camera pans around on him. Just mesmerising.The film is set towards the end of the "Old West" era with modern America creeping in. Under no circumstances should you ever miss this film its a must watch!


                
Spellbinding from the opening; a slow simmering build wrought by nothing more than Ennio Morricone's legendary score and some haunting shots from Leone, right the way to the close; a supremely satisfying conclusion, inevitable yet riveting none the less. Performances from a selection of actors all giving career defining performances, not least Charles Bronson, never better. It's also one of Jason Robards most three-dimensional portrayals, and of course there's Henry Fonda playing stridently against type in a chilling display of steel. An all time favourite, not least because I discovered it on TV one night with absolutely no prior knowledge. So do yourself a favour, pour a whisky and settle in for a slow building masterpiece.


                
One of the pioneers of cinema, Sergio Leone's directorial venture' The Good The Bad The Ugly 'urged me to gain high amount of cinematic fanaticism by watching one of his most critically lauded ' Once Upon A Time in The West'. The film gets successfully enlisted among one of the most terrific performances ever by the ensemble cast.The movie opens up with a deadly gun duel between a harmonica playing bloke (Charles Bronson) and three men dressed in a cowboy outfit. Bronson plays the enigmatic nameless person (called 'Harmonica' in the film because of his ability to play harmonica in an eerie fashion even when things appear to look serious ) being the only good guy in the film. He helms the task of protecting Brett McBain's widow Jill McBain against Frank and his fellow gangsters after the villains mercilessly massacre McBain and his children. Joining Harmonica in his mission to kill Frank is Cheyenne , the bearded bandit who is falsely framed by Frank in murder of Brett McBain. Thus, Harmonica along with the ruffian Cheyenne set out to bring down the most dreaded assassin Frank. However retribution remains their sole purpose.The film is slow-paced and the viewer is clueless about the real reason behind McBain's murder even after the half time of the movie has passed. There are bloodless fights, revenge, intimate scenes, land rights, shootouts, trains and you are only required to eat what Leone gives you, simply without questioning the plot. Things perfectly fall in place in the latter half of the movie as you get to know that Leone exhibits complete veracity while directing the Western drama. The action scenes are carefully designed and they can surely put the modern day jumbled action to utter shame. The film was bankrolled with plenty of money as it had elaborate sets, brilliant casting and fantastically executed duels.One of the most amazing western dramas I have ever seen, Once Upon A Time In The West is as distilled, refined and clear as it appears to be.9 on 10 stars
If Sam Peckinpah's Wild Bunch killed off the Western film, Sergio Leone's widescreen epic delivered a final eulogy in grand operatic fashion. This is the Wild West as only a European could see it: bigger than life, bolder than life, and much more savage than life. The plot, as suggested by the title, is a fairy tale amalgam of every Western movie myth (i.e. cliché) since Edwin S. Porter's 'Great Train Robbery', with beautiful widow Claudia Cardinale defending her homestead against an aggressive railroad tycoon. Included in the subsequent carnage is the usual cast of Spaghetti Westerners: the enigmatic, nameless anti-hero (Chuck Bronson, replacing Clint Eastwood); the scruffy desperado sidekick (Jason Robards Jr., providing welcome comic relief); and an entire secondary cast of swarthy Italian gunmen, most of whom are killed off before the closing credits. Leone toned down the often surreal amorality of his Man-With-No-Name trilogy, but in a stroke of brilliance cast Henry Fonda against his image as the sadistic mercenary hired by the railroad to "clear obstacles" (including a young boy, blown apart at point blank range) from the path of the train.


                
A lot of very interesting things. But in the beginning, the movie starts as a normal Western with the bad guys looking like the bad guys and everyone else moves into the picture as possibly the same. A beautiful prostitute has come clear across America to marry a man name of McBain. Who we soon find out is her husband after all, and has married Jill in New Orleans. While out hunting grouse with his son, McBain is shot and killed by Frank(James?). The bloodthirsty outlaws decide to decimate the place, and soon the whole McBain family is dead. Jill, however, is about to arrive in the town not far from McBain's outpost, and is not killed. She finally arrives. But not before going to the watering hole where she is not shocked by the accommodations, but merely amused. Amused, that is, until Cheyenne shows up. Cheyenne meets the man simply known as Harmonica, a Mexican half-breed who plays an integral part in the story. Harmonica(Charles Bronson), has already blown away four of Frank's gang at the railway station. The half-breed is disappointed. He does not see Frank there, but does a job on Frank's employees. After the funeral, Jill looks everywhere in McBain's house for money, and finds none. She does not realize what the wealth is. Cheyenne shows up at McBain's place(which now belongs to her). He shows the New Orleans entertainer how to make coffee. Frank the outlaw had a singular interest in Brett McBain's land. He rides the train owned my Mr. Morton, making himself a partner. Being a paraplegic with TB, Mr. Morton has little to say in the matter. By now, Frank knows of Harmonica's presence yet even after meeting Harmonica Frank has not put 2 and 2 together yet. Harmonica even gives the names of Frank's victims. Jill McBain throws herself at Frank for really no good reason, except possibly to save her own life from the treacherous outlaw. At the time that most of her belongings go on auction, Cheyenne shows up with Harmonica and Cheyenne is the bounty, so to speak, for Jill McBain's possessions and priceless property. Definitely a film to catch your attention. The train breathing as Morton plays his hand in a bewildering game of poker is reminiscent of the breathing of Dave Bowman as he struggles to regain control of the Discovery from HAL 9000.


                
The king of the Spaghetti Western delivers his film with a punch in every style in the film. The story is again the same revenge based but need anyone think it to be a negative point when it comes to leone? The thing in the screenplay and the execution which makes the film more exciting till the end is that I just pondered all the time about the characters. They are so mysterious. From the middle things start to become clear. Till then the way characters are established is going to be memorable forever. The opening sequence which has the 'wait' is one of the best sequences in the film. With his tight close ups and slow reactions of the character, I never felt if the movie was going slow. Add to that, the intricate music by morricone and we get a hell of a cinema. The story again involves three main characters. The way they are introduced doesn't make it easy to identify their personality traits. The film is good at all times and nowhere for the entire time did I felt lost. VERDICT: "A must watch"


                
Wow. I love the top rated reviews for this movie. Almost poetic they are. If you have not yet seen 'Once Upon a Time...' I envy you. It's probably my number 1 favorite Western of all times. So that you can weigh my opinion, I add 'Lonesome Dove', 'Tombstone', 'The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance', and 'My Darling Clementine' to round out a top 5 list of Westerns to have with you if trapped on a desert island and you must watch them over and over. If they gave me 5 more it would likely be the remake of 'True Grit', 'Open Range', 'Stagecoach', 'The Magnificent 7', or any of the other Wyatt Earp movies except 'Wyatt Earp's Revenge'. I suppose 'Unforgiven' should be on the list, but I have never been able to see what others see in that movie. Have patience with me... I'm also a sci-fi aficionado, yet it took many viewings of Bladerunner before I really got locked in.What you are about to see is the ultimate 'revenge movie' in a western setting. If you have ever seen Sharon Stone's revenge flick 'The Quick and the Dead', fuggedaboutit. Spaghetti Western director Sergio Leone holds court on how to properly serve this genre in 'Once Upon a Time...'.Here are some things to know about the movie up front without spoiling it for you: 1) It's a bit slow. This is NOT Short Attention Span Theater. The pace of the movie is deliberately slow. It's more like eating a simmered roast than a minute steak. Have a beer or a bowl or whatever to let your self synch down to the pace of the film.2) Every character in 'Once Upon a Time...' has their own music. Famous composer Ennio Marricone scores this epic film and endows every character with the exact right music to set the appropriate mood. Much of this film is about the score, so tune in and enjoy the ride.3) If you get confused as to what the hell is going on the movie don't worry. It's not atypical on the first time through. To help with that don't assume all the apparent bad guys are in fact all bad, and don't worry if there appear to be NO good guys for quite some time. It all works out most deliciously.4) There is an early scene where the Italian beauty Claudia Cardinale walks into the railroad station. A crane shot follows her into the station and then seamlessly tracks up above the station to reveal the town she has arrived in. It is a breathtaking single shot with Claudia's character music blaring out. An unforgettable moment! 5) The DVD has one of the best commentary tracks I've ever heard.Enjoy!


                
Normally I'm suspicious of Westerns, mostly because I really don't like the Cowboys and Indians sub-genre and I'm not very keen on the expansionist themes inherent in most Westerns, stated or otherwise. Like any genre, however, there are exceptions, and of course Once Upon a Time in the West is one of them. Sergio Leone creates a methodical, tension-rising piece of vengeance narrative set in the hard-grit reality of the West, featuring gorgeous vistas, compellingly brown-faced gunslingers, and a surprisingly unique rocking score by Ennio Morricone.Four people arrive in a small town in one day. The first is a mysterious stranger later dubbed "Harmonica" because of his token entrance cue and prominent instrument playing, a man searching for a one "Frank." The other is Frank himself, psychotic yet conniving muscle-man of a railroad emperor, out to gain his own business prospects and kill a few men, women, and children in the process. The third is handsome Cheyenne, rascal bandit of the old-school type who has his honor but also his history. And the fourth, and most important, is Jill McBain, ex-prostitute from New Orleans come to a wedding destroyed by cause of death of the groom, who has to learn how to protect her own interests in an outlaw world of grit and steel as the three men connive over the various things they want from her.Leone takes his time, building relationships like Kurosawa and allowing the camera to just soak in the imagery like his contemporary and script-writer, Dario Argento. Leone is famous for his "spaghetti westerns", Italian takes on what is quintessentially an American-themed genre, but he shows an awareness, respect, and even joy for the type of imagery and action that the genre creates. Furthermore, he sees the isolation as key--this vengeance narrative could not exist in the vigilante-style of a city, nor in a much more temperate climate, much less could the characters really grasp and engage with each other the same way had they closer connections. In a way, heck, one could consider this film something of a horror film, as the unknown (the motivations of Harmonica) drives anxiety and tension to an ultimate moment of revelation that stabs right for the gut. So fine, compare Leone to Hitchcock, too.--PolarisDiB
When composer Ennio Morricone first got the script for "Once Upon A Time In The West", he was so impressed with the story that he began writing the music for it immediately. The entire movie was scored before even a single frame was shot, and Sergio Leone liked it so much that he had portions played for the actors while rehearsing to get them to 'flow' with the music. One could go so far as to say that a good part of the picture was filmed to the score! It took me a long time to get around to this film, but it was certainly worth the wait. Any movie that opens with Jack Elam and Woody Strode has got to get your attention, but when their characters didn't survive the opening sequence, I knew this was going to be something special. Actually, having seen Elam in countless movies and TV Western episodes, I can safely say that this is the best performance I've ever seen him in. His sparring with the fly to the omnipresent creak of the windmill was an inspired piece of work, and if you didn't know anything about the story going in, you would think that these players would have a major role in the story to come. And then Bronson appears! And then Henry Fonda appears. Curiously, his character's name was Frank. It didn't take until the end of the movie to make the connection to Frank James, brother of outlaw Jesse, and the character Fonda portrayed in two much earlier movies - 1939's "Jesse James", and the sequel, 1940's "The Return of Frank James". It made me wonder if Sergio Leone's original script named the character Frank, or if it was a result of getting Fonda for the part. It's no secret that Leone had been after Fonda to appear in one of his Westerns for a few years, with Fonda declining because every script he ever read was in Leone's fractured English. Fonda eventually relied on friend Eli Wallach's (Tuco/The Ugly in "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly) advice, who said he would have the time of his life.More than most, this is a Western that in turn, defines and is defined by the music. Even Bronson's character is called Harmonica, and his tunes are played to haunting effect. They mask a much deadlier nature to the quiet stranger - "He not only plays, he can shoot too".It took me a bit into the story to figure out it was Jason Robards under the beard of Cheyenne. I think it was interesting the way his character was written, leaving it ambiguous whether he was a lawman or an outlaw. The bigger surprise though had to do with a female character in the lead role, capably performed by Claudia Cardinale. She manages to arc through a wide range of characterizations throughout the story as situations call for, holding her own well against each of the male principals.This is certainly a film I'll have to watch a few more times for some of the points noted above. In particular, the single scene I could watch over and over, one that is inextricably linked with it's musical score, is Fonda's death scene set to the strain of Morricone's dying harmonica. Not only creative, but as effective as any finale in a Western I can think of.As a final thought, I was considering how Sergio Leone could have used the title "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" for this movie if it hadn't already been taken by another one of his legendary classics. But then again, Robards wasn't that ugly.
