This show features three guys, a girl and DeVito trying to be funny. Their enthusiasm is over the top and quite annoying, their acting is off and overall this show is incredibly screaming. The jokes are horribly placed, non-situational and not funny. The story lines are ragged and not at all interesting.Charlie Day: Incredibly annoying. Makes me want to punch someone. Kaitlin Olson: Misplaced. Rob McElhenney: Needs acting classes. At the very least. Danny DeVito: To my taste, this guy has never been funny or amusing. So okay, it's quite amusing to see a pocket-size person crack jokes, but come on. Comedy's supposed to be so much more than this. Glenn Howerton: This guy's actually a relief from the awkward worthlessness of this show. But still, he's no good.After watching an episode of this, I just felt like taking a shower. But if you have low standards and are able to enjoy Danny DeVito movies, have fun...


                
This "show" is so bad it should be exempted from the Geneva Convention. The "writing" (everything actually seems to be improvised by brain-damaged chimps on the fly) is horrible, every single character is astoundingly unpleasant and the sets suck. The "plots" seem to be the result of a contest of which writer/cast member can dredge up the most witless and tasteless idea. The show is like a 30 minute belch. If anyone were looking for proof of the dumbing down of America and the total lack of standards or even a basic sense of humor remaining in our fair land, they need go no further than this miserable piece of road kill.I understand that the "creators" invested about $200 in the show. It looks it. Try breaking out the Visa card occasionally.


                
The characters are two-dimensional, never change, have no self-awareness, and I can't identify with any of them. Sometimes the characters actually revel in not having learned anything from their struggles, as if idiocy is it's own goal and reward. They seem to only exist to be thrown from one pratfall to the next, without growth, change (for better or worse), or passage of time. My brothers and I used to act something like this when we were 10 or 11, and I don't think fondly of that time.I can't see how this show got so many seasons green-lighted, and is ranked so highly here, unless I've suddenly disconnected from reality.


                
I like Danny Devito always have but I still can't manage to watch this show. I tried to watch a few episodes in the beginning but could not. The characters are totally unlikeable, there is no chemistry amongst them, and it makes you want to punch them on the TV plasma screen.If you like watching thirty somethings honestly acting like 14 and 15 year old children who wine, scream, complain, and act immaturely and insincerely to society and each other then this show may be for you. It is mind boggling that this show is still on the air.These guys are or were no names. I guess they were buddies of Fred Savage and he helped them get into the show. I lost all respect for Savage after this.


                
I watched most of the series before I made any comments. I am guessing that most of the people that LOVED this show are men. They seem to like the type of humor that is on this show. They do have some funny moments, but I can't say that I am amused at the crude, disrespectful and politically incorrect humor through most of the series. Nothing is off limits. Mac even does one show in blackface when they decide to make a movie of Lethal Weapon 6. On the internet they even have an article called The Ten Most Vile Actions of the Paddy's Pub House Gang on "Its Always Sunny in Philadelphia. And that was from 4 years ago, so I am sure they can add a lot more to that list. I think what annoys me the most is all the yelling. I don't think I have ever watched a TV series that spends 80% of the time yelling at such a high decibel. The one thing that I am curious about is how they got Danny Devito to be a regular on the show. Since it has lasted 10 seasons, I gather the ratings are good, so it worked out for him having a regular gig. I will never say something is bad, because taste is relative. Its just not my cup of tea.
This show sucks for so many reasons which most people have explored on this forum from Charlie Day's annoying screaming and overacting to Rob McElhenney's wooden performance at best. What this show lacks is the straight man. These are all deranged, despicable individuals. The closest would have to be Glenn Howerton's character, who is an insecure, self-absorbed, conceited narcissist. There is no comedic balance between the characters, and the jokes are ribald, cheap shots at minorities and the disabled without any good timing.This show is compared to Seinfeld, which is beyond me. Despite their flaws, all the protagonists on Seinfeld are somewhat charming. Elaine's wit, George's cunning, Jerry's sarcasm and Kramer's philosophical rants is what makes these characters so appealing. Mac, Sweet Dee, Dennis and Charlie are just unpleasant morons that lack any real savvy or intelligence in anything other than conning other people with their hair-brained schemes. There is not much difference in any of their persona, which makes it unbelievable, stale and awkward to watch.Empathy is a key ingredient in any comedy, and I cannot relate to any of these characters at all. It's unsettling to watch an idiot like Charlie scream (with such bad overacting on Day's part) when he doesn't have his way or when he wants to get his point across, much like a petulant child throwing a tantrum. Neither is funny and frankly, it gets on my nerves!


                
This is quite possibly the worst show I have ever seen. HOW does anyone like this show HOW? Please tell me? The acting is horrible the characters are dumb. I gave it a chance I tried, I love FOX and love my FOX Sunday but that show is amazingly horrific. I have a friend that works at FOX and have been begging her to get this show off the air(although she is only an assistant and has zero pull power) but my god why? how? Why can't FOX leave the Sunday lineup alone and stop putting their crap on there so that its gets an audience. Horrible Horrible show. I am happy knowing that it isn't staying on FOX and will be moving to FX(actually praying that it does like they said it would)


                
So I'm 10 minutes into the first episode of season 6, and I couldn't be more disappointed. Not only do I know this episode is going to suck, but I feel like I should buy a "5 Dollar Foot Long" with a Coors Light based on the whore-ship the producers negotiated with these companies. I understand making money from businesses who see the show as a marketing opportunity, but I feel as though the creators gladly reached for their ankles upon seeing the zeros on the paycheck.The Miller High Life guy didn't help. Nor did the plot content. Complete disgrace.I loved this show. Based on this season premier, I'd rather watch a boner grow instead of the diarrhea these once-creative writers have to offer.


                
This show only deserves a -10 * rating.Worst Show Ever This is nothing more than 5 year old potty humor designed for the brain dead.It would need to improve to be pathetic, I watched the first two shows of season one and felt I was going to be sick.When they brought Danny DeVito on I saw it as a despite attempt to save this turd, but then it got renewed and I was shocked to know there were that many idiots in the world.I have seen better shows canceled after the second episode.Between this and the phony reality TV shows how TV shows are set to a grade school mentality.It also shows how badly Danny DeVito's career is going.
I lived in Philadelphia for 12 years and I live not too far from there now, so I know A LOT of people who watch this show. I gave it a shot tonight, and it seems to go for cheap laughs, and nothing else.I realized another thing.If this show was called "It's always Sunny in Omaha" I wouldn't know anybody around my area that would watch it. The show is designed for the locals who feel they need some adolescent-minded 3rd-rate sitcom to make them feel important in the world. If i want comedy done right, I'll stick to Frasier, King of the Hill, and Roseanne. That is comedy that is done with honesty and heart. I spit on Danny Devito for being associated with such garbage, especially since being part of the legendary Taxi.


                
Like my title says, the only good thing in this show is Danny DeVito and even he wasn't that good (in this show). If you make a show with him in it and still make it almost the worst sitcom on television, then you're doing something wrong. The script of this show is just so bad.But the script is not the worst thing about this show, that's the acting.Danny DeVito is good for a few laughs, but the rest of the cast isn't.->Let's start with Charly Day, the most overrated actor of the century. The only thing that guy does is get on my nerves with his overacting and hyperactive behavior. I don't understand how anyone can think that guy is funny. It's like being in the loudest part of a psychiatric hospital and i don't consider being there as funny.->Then you have Glenn Howerton and Kaitlin Olson. They are both equally bad. They're also quite invisible in this show, so there's not too much to say about them.->And then you have the 'mastermind' of this show Rob McElhenney. I have to say, maybe in another show and just as an actor maybe he can be funny ,but in this bad written show (by himself) he's just not good. I first watched 5 seasons of this show because I thought it would be as good as IMDb-reviewers made it out to be, but I was so disappointed that I almost want to cry. Every episode I hoped it would maybe grow and be better, but almost every episode was a big letdown. So don't let all these good reviews misguide you, it'll probably disappoint you as well.


                
Seriously, how dare you people compare this awful series to Seinfeld? That is disgusting. This show isn't even half as funny and believe me I've given it plenty of chances. I mean, I have sincerely tried to understand why even my boyfriend likes it but it's just too stupid for me to actually get into. It always seems like I need to give it 10 minutes before I can actually get a laugh out of it, and I think that is because by then I've dumbed myself down enough as to find some humor in it. Also, it can't be compared to The Office's intelligent sense of humor when "It's Always Sunny" is obviously written by analphabet morons.


                
This serial was the worst ever , I've seen a lot , but this one is just about full tension and hysterics , always shouting at each other , always tense. When you watch a comedy , you expect to laugh a lot , cheerful atmosphere , funny dialogues , special habits for each character , and maybe some special talents to make people laugh. You're looking for some fun to spend your time and at the end you should feel better. But here, non of the artists ( if you can call them artists ) even have any particular talent or fun or something. In each episode Charlie is shouting, always full of tension, and the others think they're funny just because they start talking at the same time ! Just shouting the same crap every episode. When you look up the name in IMDb it says it's COMEDY , but telling you, been watching this for 3 seasons , I couldn't even show a faint smile !!! I don't know how it got the rating of 8.9 !!! Deeply sorry for people who voted for this !
It's rare, given the fact that I didn't meet an American comedy as unfunny as this before. It's amazing how notable comedian, director and producer like (Danny DeVito) shared in this dud, doing his worst work yet. And it's excruciating to watch the rest of the cast, delivering what they, and only they, think it's comic ! It tried to be different by looking and sounding a bit realistic, though it ended up as so primitive and tasteless. It tried to be laughable but with the most terrible plots and lines. And it tried to present newcomers (Charlie Day, Kaitlin Olson, Rob McElhenney) to blow themselves along with the whole deal as well. The problem isn't that they can't do comedy alone, it is in standing watching them in the first place !The tagline says (It's "Seinfeld" on crack). Well, I somehow love "Seinfeld", and some times for reasons don't relate to comedy. But sure I don't love crack !I hated it. It's repellent ridiculousness. What's closer to horror more than unfunny comedy?! And what's more pathetic than a show with nothing to be watched. To be fair the music of the closing credits was the only fine thing here. In fact this show doesn't deserve it ! I gave it 1 out of 10 because there isn't 0 in the IMDb rating yet. According to it; it's always dim, rather gloomy, in Philadelphia !


                
I've never done this before - writing a review for a movie or TV series here. This is the first one just to warn others.The 8.8/10 that is currently the rating of this show is the result of devoted fans rating this show a 10. It cannot be explained any other way.I'm halfway into season 4 (just because of the ratings the abundance of spare time and Danny DeVitto) and personally I think:1) Only a few scenes are genuinely funny (like two or three) 2) Acting is lousy 3) TOO MUCH shouting, I can't stress that enough. 18 out of 20 minutes is literally shouting. I sometimes got a mild headache. 4) The characters are incredibly stupid and self centered but not in a funny way. This is not like a Peter Griffin from Family Guy way. 5) There are episodes that are original plot-wise but not interesting or funny.and many more.What's to like? It's trashy I guess. (?)I cannot believe that this is considered a good show. I cannot believe it's popular. It's like a bunch of teenagers (boys with no taste probably) decided to create a show. Total Trash. So trash that after 6 years or something in this site, I was forced to write my first review. DON'T get dazzled by its good rating.0/10


                
Watching this programme is like having a group of screaming toddler whilst suffering from the worst hangover of your life. Not funny painful torture to endure.


                
This show is just trashy- that's it. It's not very funny, it looks cheap, and the characters are all despicable. Their rooms are so dirty and are so hard to look at it makes me want to stop watching. I need another line or so. That should do it. 1 out of 10. Not good at all.


                
This is like the worst thing on TV like ever.
A few none caring,stupid, murderers doing awful things..
I see that we're not supposed to like them and just see it happens and it's bad and stupid but the only thing it does is normalizing really really mass crimes and inhumanity. I can't believe it's still running.Even watching it makes me sick!
it's like telling you if you don't care about anyone and wanna go around do crimes, it's no big deal so many do it and people watch and laugh and life goes on!!
I'm disappointed from Tv, humans, those who watch this and American shows.
really guys you should start taking responsibility for things you watch.


                
I discovered this show on Reddit, and given the enthusiasm there I had to see it. The other show that Reddit got me hooked on is "30 Rock" which I now consider to be one of the greatest comedies ever produced. To call IASIP a disappointment would be to give it too much praise. I literally could not raise so much as a chuckle let alone an actual laugh in any of the first season episodes.Only when De Vito was introduced did I get a laugh, but only because of his delivery. The writing is puerile and unfunny.The fact that so many seasons have been produced may imply that it gets better, or that the producers have found the market that actually enjoys this.Good luck to them all, but I'm staying away.


                
