OK, I'm glad that people like the show. I truly am. Any show that people can find some joy in watching is okay by me; even if I'm baffled as to why. With a mind-boggling user-rating of 9.2, this might not seem like the best place to offer a dissenting view; but what the heck, I'm a rebel. There's a quote on the home page that says, "Seinfeld on crack." Surely, they jest. The only thing these two shows have in common is that they were filmed.Now, the main problem for me is that I suppose I've never particularly found crude, uncouth, blatantly moronic characters to be particularly funny (Hence why My Name is Earl never really tickled my funny bone). But the biggest problem I had with It's Always Sunny, was that after watching 1 episode from each season, and 2 from the latest season, was that I found it's so painfully unfunny. But what kept nagging me was WHY did I find it so incredibly unfunny. I mean, I know why I find a lame comedy like 2 1/2 Men so painfully unfunny (a laugh track turned up to 10 for every incredibly predictable, lame joke offered would be my starting point. But I digress). I believe great comedy is made up of certain elements. Among the most brilliant comedies in recent TV history that displayed these elements would be shows like Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm, The Office, and 30 Rock, to name a few. Below is what I think those elements are:1) Top-notch, highly skilled comedians or comic actors in the lead roles.2) Comedic actors who are not only highly-skilled and have perfect timing, but are incredibly interesting to watch (e.g., Jason Alexander, Alec Baldwin, Larry David, Steve Carrell, Michael Richards). It's Always Sunny at least has the great Danny DeVito, but the poor writing wastes his talent. Which leads me to...3) Writing that is so damn clever, with plots lines that tie together so perfectly, and jokes that are so unpredictable that you literally laugh out loud. It's not hard to see why all these shows have been nominated repeatedly for Emmys (along with the Daily Show with Jon Stewart. Another perfectly-crafted comedy led by a highly-skilled comedian).4) Characters and subject matter that is instantly relatable. We've all had moments where we felt like George Costanza or Larry David or Liz Lemon or Jerry Seinfeld, or dealt with a Jack Donaghy. As hard as I searched, I couldn't find ANY of these elements in "It's Always Sunny..." The writing is insipid and reminds you of those two drunk guys at the end of the bar who are convinced they are hilarious after about 12 beers, with punchlines that fall flat. "DUDE! Oh my god, remember that time I farted so loud at that frat party that I set off the house alarm? That was SO FUNNY!"The acting is uneven, with Danny DeVito and Kaitlen Olson doing most of the heavy lifting. Olsen is quite good. As for Rob McElhenney, I give the guy a ton of respect for creating and getting someone to believe in the show enough to buy it, but let's be honest here, the man does not belong in front of a camera. Acting is not his strong suit. Or maybe it's just the poorly written role, but something's gotta give. A show can get away with having characters who are not very bright, provided we care about them. Kramer on Seinfeld may have been an idiot, but he was a lovable idiot, with his heart always in the right place; same goes with the Joey on Friends, or Ted Baxter on the Mary Tyler Moore Show. But the two moronic characters played by McElhenney are Day are so absurdly dumb (as when they throw a box spring, serving as a ladder, out of an empty pool, leaving them stranded; a joke we see a mile away), are so incredibly unlikable that you can't muster the strength to root for them. And yet, they're too boorish and crude to even be fascinated by them.But hey, people seem to dig the show, and that's all that counts. But if you're not a fan of lowbrow comedy, completely lacking in cleverness (as opposed to Family Guy and the Farrelly Brothers movies which are lowbrow, but incredibly clever), this show might not be for you. I'm still trying to square in my head how the same people who recognize the brilliance in shows like Seinfeld and The Daily Show, could also find anything remotely funny here.


                
I watched first season of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia and just can't understand how did this show got so good points in IMDb. Most likely also IMDb can be wrong, but come on, better points than Friends? This "hey lets be politically incorrect and pretend it's really funny" -thing does not work. It is really predictable, stupid and filled with not-so-good-actors. I don't want to think world full of people who gives 10 out of 10 to this kind of crap. You might like their humor if you are 14 or under.If first season can suck this much, how down can they dive with seasons 2, 3 and 4? Everyone who's planning to do some investments in this series, with your own money, don't do it. Go rent Borat again. If you just rent it last week, go ahead and rent it again.


                
Commentator Tommy Nelson said it perfectly. This show has a cult-like following, and it's shows are funny, but it's nowhere near a classic.I got into the show through a Reddit article about the DENNIS system. That was a great episode. It's a perfect episode for the fraternity-bound college male who read books like The Game and went to sites like becomeaplayer.com. I enjoyed that whole heartedly.The recession episode was blatantly spoon-fed, but that was their point. They were bailing us out comically, like the government. The North Korea episode was funny, but bordered between stereotypical and full out 1970's Asian-style racism. 20 year old looking girl with a hybrid Vietnamese-Chinese accent is really a 12 year old North Korean. Ha. Ha. I get it. But in all fairness, Mr. Kim was great. Also, the relationship between the story and North Korean politics were well executed.Most of the episodes border on absurdity and full-out misogyny, which I wouldn't have a problem with if the characters were more than one dimensional. No actor or actress show any motivation for their character beyond caricature. It felt like they were just a bunch of pals bouncing lines off of each other - each of their characters could be summarized in one sentence.The only one who acts really well is Danny De Vito, although he acts like a monster reminiscent of his penguin past. Self depravity can only go so far in comedy.So there were great episodes, funny ones, and forgettable ones. This is the type of show I would play on Hulu while I'm eating dinner, but I wouldn't go out of my way to watch it. I might buy the dick towel, though.


                
FX is going to great lengths to make it sound like this series was created by a bunch of amateurs in their backyard.Nothing could be further from the truth. The creator has IMDb credits as long as my arm!! And now they're having a promotional contest to hype this lie!! How disgusting!! The pilot supposedly cost $200. Maybe it's true. After all, when you're a Hollywood insider, you have a bunch of people that owe you a favor or think they can curry favor and will do things for free or provide services for free.The reality is that this was a pitch by a Hollywood writer, not an outsider with a good idea.How disgusting of FX to pretend otherwise.Shame of you FX!! I'll boycott that show until you apologize to your viewers.


                
