I am a massive fan of this show but something has gone wrong in series 13.I will attempt an analysis of this;. The show in the past was mostly self contained in its humour, with its own world and own reference points, now suddenly it is bringing in external reference points.It is self-evident that you must never mix genres, to make an issue led programme in a comedic setting does a disservice to both genres and just produces an unsatisfactory result.The gang are older and seem more serious and adult, but the programme in the past was very much based on the inner child and shaking a fist at maturity. The term "reluctant adult" is apposite.I am always wary of fashion trends, gender neutral toilets, me to, times up, racism, immigration, border wall, health fads, etc etc. These are fleeting issues of interest that are not best tackled within this format.In the show we had different levels of intellect and character definition, now they seem all sharp, smart mouthed, etc etc. So the script writing has changed in this respect.Lastly the show primarily was driven by a new ridiculous plan in each episode and how this played out, this was the narrative drive, now as a viewer we are cast adrift and it has descended into a talking shop which can become tedious.I am sure this will come back on track when they connect again with their inner childs.


                
Because that is the level of humor this show produces. Several people told me to watch it because it was inventive and intelligent comedy, maybe if you are a child. The crude and obnoxious characters were somewhat funny in season one but when the same jokes and sketches are reused for different scenarios it becomes stale and old. I figure people that believe Will Ferrell and Seth Rogan are funny would enjoy this because it is the same over and over just on a different day. Now don't get me wrong, I enjoy a bit of the rude and crude humor as my obsession with Steve Martin and Mel Brooks will attest to but it gets stale when that is all you have. For me there has to be a bit of reality as well and we all know these people would either be in jail or disabled from getting their asses kicked daily. So in the end if you are into 3rd grade humor and the same ole same ole then this show will keep you entertained.


                
