I'm a 57 yo female and I've been binging on this show. Yes, it's written for the 18-35 male demographic, but I'm 43 episodes into it and look forward to the next. Some have talked about the bad plots,the one-dimensional characters, the yelling over top of each other. Yes, yes, and yes.If you notice, however, there are usually 3 plots per episode carried by groups of two or three main players. Each "plot" unfolds within the series of skits that make up each show. In this regard, it's much like 30 Rock with absurd plots, unbelievable characters, etc. I love 30 Rock, too.The characters are like asteroids. Each a simple little bit of inorganic rock that sometime in the past crashed into each other and stuck. Whenever one spirals in, so do they all. And it happens every show - we just never know what THAT is going to look like.As for the screaming - I'm from back east (Pittsburgh, not Philly) where people talk/holler over each other, at high volume, with amazing frequency. It transports me back to the land of Thick Skin. The beauty of this in this show - whether intentional or not - the yelling is a character itself. When it enters a scene, anything or anyone not engaged in the shouting ceases to exist. I find that hilarious, especially when the yelling stops and the characters seem to not notice it even happened. Only the poor bystanders are aware. Very Stoogelike.So that's my two cents. Sophomoric, blue, controversial issues, lacking in social graces, scatological. Whatever. It hits its demographic and some unlikely outliers.


                
Just finished watching the season 13 finale and it was utter garbage, as was most of the seasons episodes. I used to love this show and it was one of the very few things I actually rated 9/10. However from season 12 and onward the quality of the episodes have been falling drastically. Cementing this fact, was the 5 minute long dance act in the seasons final episode "Mac Finds His Pride" . Frank looked misty eyed into the camera and uttered "I get it". Well let me tell you...I don't get it. I feel the creators have lost their grasp on what people found funny and great about the show to begin with and there is a clear feeling that they have moved on and are doing other stuff independently from one another. Dennis, one of the strongest characters, if not THE strongest, isn't even in half the episodes. I am so disappointed right now.
If dark humor is not your thing, turn away. This show employs some of the darkest. If I met any of the main characters in real life, each one would probably be the worst person I've ever met. They are so selfish and twisted that they are all offputting at first, but with the more episodes you watch, it becomes hilarious to see what absurdly messed up schemes they will come up next.I watched the first 12 seasons, and I was quite surprised that the same level of humor was maintained all the way to the final episode, which is an extremely rare feat for comedy shows.


                
This show is the definition of brilliance. From the very first episode to the latest, this show doesn't get lose its hilarity like some shows. In fact, this show keeps getting better and better! One of the main key reasons i enjoy "It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia" is the fact that it has pure comedic entertainment 100% of the way through, from the beginning of the episode to the end. And every episode has an extremely original and vastly refreshing comedic situation that gives you a feel of why this show's title - "It's Always SUNNY..." - is so brilliant. A few more key reasons are: 1 - it doesn't hold back; 2 - doesn't have any sort of drama whatsoever; 3 - it's unpredictable; 4 - the characters are lovable and so easy to relate to in a weird and psychotic sort of way; 5 - most importantly, IT GETS AS FUNNY AS IT COULD GET!!!!!!


                
If you thought most of the people that the main characters of the TV show "Seinfeld" dealt with were scumbags, guess what? Those people are nothing compared to the main characters that the FX comedic series "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" centers on. Where do I begin? You've got "twin siblings" named Dennis Reynolds (Glenn Howerton) and Deandra Reynolds (Kaitlin Olson) who own a bar named Paddy's Pub and don't get along with each other that well. Their father Frank (Danny DeVito) comes out of the blue one day and decides to become a manager at Paddy's Pub. Then, you've got two other guys named Mac (Rob McElhenney) and Charlie (Charlie Day) who are also co-owners of the pub. Mac tries to dress and act like a tough guy with advanced martial arts skills even though everyone else thinks otherwise. Charlie is responsible for doing the dirty work and is considered by many to be a slob, drunk, and drug addict. The show basically follows these guys and their constant misadventures in life. I've personally watched only the first four seasons of this show so far, so my thoughts will be based solely on that. For about the first three seasons I've seen, "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" was a funny show about five people who make life a living hell for anyone unfortunate to cross their paths. The Waitress (Mary Elizabeth Ellis), the show's most frequently recurring character, is probably the most unfortunate because of Charlie's undying interest in her and her undying non-interest in him. On top of that, she somehow constantly ends up being a victim of the gang's diabolical schemes against her own will. The reason the show earns its laughs isn't just because of the suffering experienced from the likes of the Waitress and any other similar characters the gang comes across. It's also because these five people, save possibly for Deandra, are so selfish, ignorant, greedy, dishonest and all around immoral that one can't help but chuckle at how they obtain their ill- conceived ideas. When I was watching the fourth season of the series, I must admit that I was no longer laughing as frequently or as hardly as I was with the first three seasons. It could be because if you really think about it, the show starts repeating its own formula all too frequently. I think I can interpret the formula as such. The gang concocts an elaborate plan to engage in some sort of controversial activity. For example, Dennis and Deandra try to qualify for welfare by smoking cocaine, or any other bizarre situations. Each member of the gang conspires against one another and starts to become competitive for their own personal gain, vengeance, or entertainment. And most importantly, a joke is made at the expense of Deandra because she's a woman. The other four guys have the wrongly informed belief that she's incapable of doing anything at all because of her gender. Now in able for the audience to remember this, they literally have to make a one-note running joke about her gender in nearly every single episode. Certain routines, plot devices, and running jokes similar to what I listed above can make this show repetitious for some, including myself. But for a moment, let's try to imagine the rest of "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" without this flaw and consider the overall quality of what the show has got otherwise. You still have some pretty good stuff in here. I can name a few episodes at the top of my head that really stand out in this series. There's one called "America's Next Top Paddy's Billboard Model Contest" where Charlie and Deandra try to create a hit viral video for YouTube and Dennis competes in a modeling contest taking place at the pub. Another great one is "The Gang Dances Their Asses Off" where Charlie gambles the whole bar to win a dance marathon which in turn gets the gang to try and win the bar back. Other standout episodes I'll briefly shout out include "Underage Drinking: A National Concern", "The Gang Gives Back", "The Gang Gets Invincible", and "The Gang Sells Out". If you're not into shows or films about guys trying to get laid or anything of that sort, you're probably not going to like this. If you're looking for shows or films where you can simply laugh at the stupidity of the characters that you follow, "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" works in that sense. I wouldn't consider it one of the best comedies on television right now, but I'd deem it serviceable. I'd personally say you'll get 3-5 awesome episodes from this series minimum.


                
This show has gotten an amazing following, and has almost all positive reviews. This is a good show, and it's entertaining, but in no way is this a classic.Four young adults run/work at a bar and have goofy adventures, alongside Frank, father of two of the group. Obviously, my standards were two high, because the way this show's been talked of, it sounds like a hilarious masterpiece. Unfortunately it's neither. It's a pretty funny show, sometimes on the fence between funny and amusing. The characters are pretty likable, and Danny Devito was a good addition to the cast. The raunchiness is both good and bad. It allows them to have plots and situations that no other show has (incest, molestation, etc.), but they go overboard. Most of the language is unnecessary and sounds forced. I like cussing, but when every joke in the show has a cuss word in it, it's not funny.It's Always Sunny is nowhere near as good as it could be, or is thought of as, but it's a pretty amusing show.My rating: *** out of ****. TVMA 30 mins.


                
This show is really funny if you turn off your brain and just enjoy. Something i love about the show is how they aren't scared to saw "bad" things. honestly i've only seen 3 ep. but they were all great. The acting is is really good and feels very real. the things that happen are way crazy and over the top but how they react to whats happen is well..how i'd react lol. also people who freak out on all the bad things they do need to remember, nothing good happen to them because of it lol. in fact many bad bad things happen. I love comedy that lets bad people stay bad people and have bad things happen to them lol. it's fun!Over all this show will most likely fade away once they run out of ideas...which may happen at within 3 seasons and become one of the many cult classic that everyone will claim they loved just to show how cool they were...so watch it so you can at least be honest when you say you use to watch it..before it was cool


                
It tries to be a bit like Seinfeld in the new century but fails on this front. Instead the show provides a different take and level of friends getting the better of other friends in a no-win fashion. It is still enjoyable, but the equation gets old.


                
It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia is an hilarious sitcom with very edge humour. The characters represent what it to hit rock bottom, as each season goes on the main characters get worse and worse and there is no limit to how crazy their day-to-day antics are. But this show isn't for everyone, it appeals to a small audience who like a more alternative style of humour rather than the traditional style like Friends or The Big Bang Theory.


                
