I hate to say but the latest season has been utter garbage. It's like it was made half hearted or they ran out of ideas. Denis, my fav character is a must in the show. He only appears in some episodes. 1 or 2 of the episodes were decent but the rest were crap. There was always some hit and miss episodes in previous seasons but this whole season felt like a waste of time. They need to go back to what made it successful. Whitty funny storylines. Oh my god if they do another episode where they do a recap of like all the times see hit her head or Charlie got smashed, I mean come on! You know they are short on ideas when they start that crap, seriously. Denis needs to get on board again and they need to focus on the show and not their individual projects.
This is one of a few shows that I have watched since it's conception, which was 3 or 4 years ago...I can't quite remember; this fact attests to it's (IASIP's) quality and hilarity. For those of you who have watched It's Always Sunny from the beginning, you will remember the original tag line for the show, "Seinfeld on Crack," ; a spot-on description of this crude yet brilliant series. It fits that description in two key respects; every character in the show is a selfish low- life, (thus the term Seinfeld) and the setting and lifestyle of the characters is an urban, dingy, filthy one, filled with glue-huffing, cat food consumption, beer drinking, anonymous sex.. etc. (thus the term crack). But I hope this seemingly disgusting and crass description of the show does not eschew you from watching it. Quite on the contrary, I hope it encourages you to watch it, because it is funny. Well written and well acted, I never get tired of hearing the five main characters, each one of them victims of a major character flaw, attempt to find their way through conflict and success, and fail every time. Just watch one episode, preferably an early 2nd season one, and I promise you, you will be hooked. Charlie, Mac, Dee, Dennis, and Frank never fail to make whatever they are going through into some ridiculous circumstance that exudes comedy.


                
In my opinion the best US comedy I've seen. The characters are terrible human beings, they do horrible things and treat others like crap. But it makes for a hilarious show, with crazy episode plots, and well crafted jokes (among a few classic poo and wee ones). Danny Devito is ridiculously funny, with crude words and disgusting behaviour, he is a masterpiece.


                
I just wish they would make more episodes. This show is so funny. These people are, hands down, the dumbest live action characters on any TV show ever. I am surprised they haven't gone to prison. I'm surprised they are still alive. These people just destroy everything everywhere they go. They can't do anything right. It's about these 5 losers who run this run down bar in Philadelphia. Pretty simple concept, but the eps are so well written and the humor is so edgy and unique and the interaction between the characters in flawless they all play off each other perfectly. There's Charlie who is probably the dumbest. I don't think he can even read. There's Sweet Dee, the girl who gets picked on by the guys all the time. I feel kind of bad for her sometimes. There's her brother Dennis who thinks he's all that, but needless to say, he is not. There's Frank their dad, played by Danny DeVito. Need I say more? Finally there's Mac who fancies himself a fighter and may be gay. One of their season finally eps The Iceman Cometh was pure genius. I almost died laughing. I hope to see more episodes soon.


                
My friends and I having liked Arrested Development, have easily picked up this new show. All of the characters work so well together to make this really quick and funny.I also hate Aqua Teen Hunger Force, but I have to strongly disagree with the other comment. This show is nothing like the mindless stupidity of ATHF. This show actually has jokes that someone had to plan out and write, and then fit into the dialogue.Please give this show a try. Posted below is a website where you can legally stream a few episodes for free. http://www.heavy.com/index.php?channel=sunnyinphilly


                
Most of the reviewers just watch one or two episodes and then review things but I prefer to actually watch some Seasons before writing a review. When I first watched the season 1 and 2 I was shocked because everything was so dumb. The cast was something that I usually don't see and the way they acted and the plot was amazingly stupid, yes it was stupid but in a funny way.I watch this show whenever I eat or have time to kill, it's a pretty good stress reliever especially thanks to the story line. It's pretty generic because they back and forth between doing something right and then messing everything.Obviously we see some rehashed episodes but that's TV for you. The Season 6 seems a bit dull to me compared to the other seasons but I am happily downloading Season 7 now.Don't take this for an epic something, it's just a funny show that some may or may not enjoy, for me it's a welcome change compared to other shows. I just hope they prefer to end the show then let it go down like the other known shows.Must watch if you want to see something different. Do not compare it to other shows or don't THINK too much.www.totseans.com


                
It's the most consistently funny show on television.


                
This show is seriously funny. All the crazy friends doing stupid stuff everyday in a crazy humorous way. I like how they link the story at the end to make them look idiots and that has to be the funniest part of this show. Sure there are no punch lines in the episodes but everything they do and the way they say is just hilarious and makes you want to laugh so hard. There are many types of comedy out there, but this can make most people laugh without having to scratch their brain. The characters are perfect for their roles with their rude, racist, dumb jokes and sometime they even throw some knowledge about politics and other serious matter and mostly warning audience not to follow their footstep. Love this show after Big Bang Theory.


                
I used to love this show but it looks like they are running out of ideas? I have been trying to give it a chance but the first few episodes are so bad - I'm super disappointed. Perhaps it's time to end this show. I still watch the re-runs of the previous seasons though.


                
I also cant get enough of this show! I think its hilarious, and I love most the jokes and characters. However, I only give 7 out of 10 because I found many minor technical issues, and also the storyline sometimes does not make sense. Also, some the storyline from the newer issue does not connect with the older issue. For example, when Dee wanted to apply jobs at Oldies Rock Cafe, the waitress did not know if she went to high school, but later on, they have bunch of stories when they were in high school together. Another example was when Frank got an accident on Christmas Eve, where the stores were supposedly closed, but he got time to buy Charlie and Mac a robot, before 6 AM on Christmas Day.(???). Also,Charlie was known to be the dirtiest, craziest, weirdest, and vomited when he has to perform/public speaking, but how can he actually create and perform on such a musical? Maybe I was the one who paid too much attention on details, or because I really love this show that I watched them too often. But I feel like that would be better to recognize those details, to make them look more professional. For example, no microphone showing, random setting changes after few seconds of act, etc.But other than that, I really really love this show! I think it is really entertaining and unique! Danny de Vito and Charlie Day really rocked it! Keep it up!
