A stand-alone monument in cinema history, Stanley Kubrick's magnum opus 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) is an undeniable masterpiece. 2001 not only shattered science fiction genre conventions, but gave cinema a whole new meaning. From the grandiosity of its futuristic idea to its ambitious execution, 2001 isn't concerned with entertaining us- but rather to inspire us with awe. I've never seen a person say, "2001: A Space Odyssey? I don't think I've seen it... oh wait, the one with like, the spaceships and stuff?", while most movies today are forgotten once the credits roll. What viewers must understand is that 2001 not the type of movie where you "get it" or not, nor is it designed to thrill us with flashy special effects- but as Kubrick said, is "...intended to be an intensely subjective experience that reaches the viewer at an inner level of consciousness." In it of itself, exploring the philosophical and scientific arenas of mankind while serving as a groundbreaking achievement both on a conceptual and technical level is a hell of an accomplishment, but to transcend the audience to a whole new dimension all in one- that's sheer genius at its highest form.At its premiere, 2001 polarized critics and audiences alike. Walkouts numbered well over 200, including Rock Hudson who asked, "Will someone tell me what the hell this is all about?" The New York Times remarked, "Somewhere between hypnotic and immensely boring." "Superb photography major asset to confusing, long-unfolding plot," Newsday commented. Renowned critic Pauline Kael even went as far as calling 2001 "trash masquerading as art". It's understandable, though. In a time in which excitement revolving around interstellar exploration and extra-terrestrial life was everyday talk, audiences came into 2001 expecting answers. When will we reach the moon? What does the future hold? Are we alone? To their great surprise, 2001 did the paradoxical; leaving more questions to answer than answered questions.Even though the late 60s marked the height of technological optimism, Kubrick saw ahead, highlighting the potential negatives of technological advancement. Notice the contrast between how apes and humans approach the monolith. The apes approach it with dignity, respect, and mindfulness. The humans approach it with arrogance, grouping astronauts in front of the monolith to take a picture. Since the monolith represents the incomprehensible (man, with his limited senses, cannot comprehend the absence (perfect black) of color or light), Kubrick may be suggesting the manner in which we handle new information is careless and hasty, emphasized in the Clavius base briefing. Scientists discuss how to distribute this exciting news to the public, for "if the facts were prematurely and suddenly stated without adequate preparation and conditioning", as stated by Dr. Heywood Floyd (William Sylvester), it may cause "cultural shock and social disorientation". It's a significant message to the anxious people of 1968 to perceive fresh information precisely and draw conclusions logically.Yet apes are not much better. They're not willing to share food and water with their fellow apes, and with the discovery of bones as weapons, kill their own race for a puddle of water- possibly foreshadowing our own demise if we continue to advance artificial intelligence. Because like our ancestors, at heart, mankind has been and will always be selfish.Far before The Terminator (1984) or The Matrix (1999) accentuated the dangers of artificial intelligence, there was 2001. H.A.L 9000, voice played by Douglas Rain, was ingeniously crafted into one of the most terrifying villains in film history. There's something about his calm voice, unpredictability, and especially, his omniscient single red eye that's so frightening. Kubrick utilizes one of his favorite filmmaking devices to compare artificial intelligence with humans: irony. Neither Dave Bowman (Keir Dullea) or Frank Poole (Gary Lockwood) display much emotion throughout the film, while H.A.L, albeit a machine, exhibits some while pleading for life singing "Daisy" (which, by the way, is a heart-wrenching scene) and murdering his crew members. There are clear connotations of humanity's fate when H.A.L attempts to kill Frank, Dave, and the hibernating crew members. Yet H.A.L, contrast to what he may think, is not perfect. If he was incapable of miscalculating even the slightest bit, he wouldn't have gotten himself killed. Kubrick implies that artificial intelligence has not yet reached the level of annihilating the human race, but if we are not careful, they soon will.This idea coincides with the perplexing final sequence, resembling man reaching the next stage of evolution. After the famous "Star Gate" sequence, Dave is enlightened in a room. The setting hints at the Enlightenment Era, exquisitely decorated in 18th century style and embellished with lavish paintings and furniture. Notice how the room is solely lit through the transparent ground, establishing a heavenly environment. The eerie silence is ominous, magnifying the mystical aura that is ever so present in the timelessness of the final scene. As Dave exits his EVA pod, he watches himself age rapidly through one-point perspective. He knocks over a wine glass while eating, suggesting that man, no matter how advanced, will keep making mistakes. As he lays on his deathbed later, he reaches out to the monolith, alluding to Adam reaching out to God in Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam. After man is enlightened, he inevitably dies.A pessimistic ending? No. Man is then transported back to Earth as a "Space Baby", an infinitely more advanced race, marking a new age of evolution. A masterful stroke of genius, Kubrick ends hopeful, giving us another chance to improve on our mistakes. Or is it hopeful? Is he implying that civilization is evolving badly? Or is he suggesting that civilization will NEVER evolve? There are multiple interpretations of the ending, and it's a question for you to answer.There is such a great deal of symmetry in 2001's composition throughout the film, possibly suggesting the equilibrium present in the universe. The painstakingly slow pace also compliments the exactness of its harmony, practically forcing you to admire its artistry. While Andrei Tarkovsky's work would breathe with such organic and poetic beauty, Kubrick's artificial visual fluidity mesmerizes the eye with meticulous precision and thoroughness. Each shot, averaging 13.6 seconds, possesses a sense of purity and perfection that can only be achieved through the medium of cinema.But of course, it's impossible not to talk about 2001 without mentioning one aspect. The visual effects are so unanimously praised that it's hopeless to even try to describe how groundbreaking and influential they were. Hopeless. I can talk for days about the impeccable zero-gravity effects, clever rotating sets, fastidiously constructed spaceships, the brilliant use of slit-scan photography for the psychedelic Star Gate sequence, or how it pioneered the use of front projection with retroreflective matting, but what's the point? You don't need me to appreciate 2001's immaculate visuals.Finally, the choice of music is outstanding. Originally, Alex North was appointed to score the film, but Kubrick turned it down in post-production. Critic Roger Ebert explains it perfectly, "North's (rejected) score, which is available on a recording, is a good job of film composition, but would have been wrong for 2001 because, like all scores, it attempts to underline the action-to give us emotional cues. The classical music chosen by Kubrick exists outside the action. It uplifts. It wants to be sublime; it brings a seriousness and transcendence to the visuals.""But why all the slow parts?" asks the one who fell asleep. Primarily, to establish tone. Unlike the low-budget commercial science fiction movies preceding it, 2001 was meant to be taken seriously. It symbolizes a quest for whether God exists or not, challenges humanity's fate, and questions evolution as a whole. If each shot's average length was two seconds and there was some sappy romantic love subplot mixed in between, the whole film would've been a mess. Space isn't fast-paced like we see in most movies. Space is slow-really, really, slow. The addition of three minutes and seventeen seconds of a black screen in the beginning was also pure genius, a signal for casual moviegoers to get out of the theater now and save your time.Thankfully, its ingenuity was gradually recognized, and it's now widely regarded as one of the greatest and influential films of all time. It stands at an impressive #6 on the BFI "Sight and Sound" Critics' poll in 2012, ties for 2nd in the Director's poll, places 15th on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies, and tops the Online Film Critics Society list of "greatest science-fiction films of all time".2001: A Space Odyssey breaks almost every rule there is in filmmaking. The first half drags, the dialogue is unnatural, the static camera creates no visual interest, there are barely any emotional punches, characters are monotonous, and none of the protagonists, if there even are, have dimensionality, arcs or epiphanies. Nonetheless, it's transcendental and sublime, awe-inspiring and thought-provoking, visually revolutionary, technically impeccable, monumentally imaginative, substantially rich, and way ahead of its time, thriving with unparalleled originality and ambition.Only a few films will live forever. 2001 is one of them. Happy 50th birthday.
Sometimes reading the user comments on IMDB fills me with despair for the species.  For anybody to dismiss 2001: A Space Odyssey as "boring" they must have no interest in science, technology, philosophy, history or the art of film-making.  Finally I understand why most Hollywood productions are so shallow and vacuous - they understand their audience.Thankfully, those that cannot appreciate Kubrick's accomplishment are still a minority.  Most viewers are able to see the intelligence and sheer virtuosity that went into the making of this epic.  This is the film that put the science in "science fiction", and its depiction of space travel and mankind's future remains unsurpassed to this day.  It was so far ahead of its time that humanity still hasn't caught up.2001 is primarily a technical film.  The reason it is slow, and filled with minutae is because the aim was to realistically envision the future of technology (and the past, in the awe inspiring opening scenes).  The film's greatest strength is in the details.  Remember that when this film was made, man still hadn't made it out to the moon... but there it is in 2001, and that's just the start of the journey.  To create such an incredibly detailed vision of the future that 35 years later it is still the best we have is beyond belief - I still can't work out how some of the shots were done.  The film's only notable mistake was the optimism with which it predicted mankind's technological (and social) development.  It is our shame that the year 2001 did not look like the film 2001, not Kubrick's.Besides the incredible special effects, camera work and set design, Kubrick also presents the viewer with a lot of food for thought about what it means to be human, and where the human race is going.  Yes, the ending is weird and hard to comprehend - but that's the nature of the future.  Kubrick and Clarke have started the task of envisioning it, now it's up to the audience to continue.  There's no neat resolution, no definitive full stop, because then the audience could stop thinking after the final reel.  I know that's what most audiences seem to want these days, but Kubrick isn't going to let us off so lightly.I'm glad to see that this film is in the IMDB top 100 films, and only wish that it were even higher.  Stanley Kubrick is one of the very finest film-makers the world has known, and 2001 his finest accomplishment. 10/10.


                
For all those bewildered by the length and pace of this film ("like, why does he show spaceships docking for, like, 15 minutes?"), here's a word you might want to think about:Beauty. Beauty is an under-rated concept. Sure, you'll often see nice photography and so on in films. But when did you last see a film that contains beauty purely for the sake of it? There is a weird belief among cinemagoers that anything which is not plot or character related must be removed. This is depressing hogwash. There is nothing wrong with creating a beautiful sequence that has nothing to do with the film's plot. A director can show 15 minutes of spaceships for no reason than that they are beautiful, and it is neither illegal nor evil to do so.   '2001' requires you to watch in a different way than you normally watch films. It requires you to relax. It requires you to experience strange and beautiful images without feeling guilty that there is no complex plot or detailed characterization. Don't get me wrong, plots and characters are good, but they're not the be-all and end-all of everything. There are different KINDS of film, and to enjoy '2001' you must tune your brain to a different wavelength and succumb to the pleasure of beauty, PURE beauty, unfettered by the banal conventions of everyday films.  "All art is quite useless" -  Oscar Wilde.


                
A review I have put off for far too long....Bluntly, 2001 is one of the best science-fiction films made to date, if not the very best. Stanley Kubrick was a genius of a film maker and this is one of his very best works. And although it is misunderstood by many, and respectively underrated, it is considered one of the best films of all time and I'll have to agree. Back in 1968, no one had done anything like this before, and no one has since. It was a marvel of a special effects breakthrough back then, and seeing how the effects hold up today, it is no wonder as to why. The film still looks marvelous after almost forty years! Take note CGI people. Through the use of large miniatures and realistic lighting, Kubrick created some of the best special effects ever put on celluloid. This aspect alone almost single-handedly created the chilling void of the space atmosphere which is also attributed to the music and realistic sound effects. I can't think of another film where you can't here anything in space, like it is in reality. Not only is the absence of sound effects in space realistic, it is used cleverly as a tool to establish mood, and it works flawlessly.Aside from the magnificent display of ingenious special effects, there are other factors that play a part in establishing the feel of the film. The music played, all classical, compliment what the eyes are seeing and make you feel the significance of man's journey through his evolution from ape to space traveler.The story, while seemingly simple, is profound. Sequentially, several mysterious black monoliths are discovered and basically trigger certain events integral to the film. What are they? Where did they come from? What do they do? These are all questions one asks oneself while watching the story develop and is asked to find his own way. While most come away with a general idea of what took place in the story, each individual will have to decide what it means to them. Any way one decides to answer these question results in profound solutions. It's not left entirely up to interpretation, but in some aspects it is. Experience it for more clarification. The end result is quite chilling, no matter your personal solution.While it is a long film, and sometimes slows down, it has to be in order to accurately portray the journey of man. It's not a subject that would have faired well in a shorter film, faster paced feature. Those with short attention spans need not apply.Last but not least, is the epitome of a remorseless antagonist, HAL 9000, the computer. Never has a machine held such a chilling screen presence. Which reminds me, for a film with such profound ambition and execution, there is surprisingly little dialogue. Another sign of Kubrick's genius.All in all, one of the best films made to date and one of the very best science fiction films made. A personal favorite. Everyone must see this film at least once.Very highly recommended.


                
Instead of writing a paragraph, I'll give four good reasons why 2001 is  the greatest cinema experience of all time:  1) It is a visual Odyssey that could only be told on the big screen.  The special effects that won Kubrick his only Oscar are the most  stunning effects before that age of Jurassic Park and T2. They allow  Kubrick to give an accurate (or at least are the most accurate)  depiction of space travel to date. The silence that fills the space  scenes not only serves its purpose as accurate science, but also adds  to the mood of the film (to be discussed in a later point with HAL).  The fact that Kubrick shot the moon scenes before the Apollo landing is  a gutsy yet fulfilling move. Many have said that upon its original  release, it was a favorite "trip" movie. I can think of no other movie  that has such amazing visuals for its time and even of all time (sorry  Phantom Menace fans!)  2) Kubrick's directing style is terrific. As in all his films, Kubrick  likes to use his camera as means to delve into the psychology of his  characters and plots. His camera is not as mobile as other greats, such  as Scorsese, but instead sits and watches the narrative unfold. Faces  are the key element of a Kubrick film. Like classic movies, such as M  and Touch of Evil, Kubrick focuses on the characters' faces to give the  audience a psychological view-point. Even he uses extreme close-ups of  HAL's glowing red "eye" to show the coldness and determination of the  computerizd villain. I could go on, but in summation Kubrick is at the  hieght of his style.  3) HAL 9000 is one of the most villainous characters in film history. I  whole-heartedly agree with the late Gene Siskle's opinion of HAL 9000.  Most of this film takes place in space. Through the use of silence and  the darkness of space itself, a mood of isolation is created. Dave and  his crewmen are isolated between earth and jupiter, with nowhere to  escape. Combine this mood with the cold, calculated actions of HAL 9000  and you have the most fearful villain imaginable. I still, although  having see this film several times, feel my chest tighten in a  particular scene.  4) The controversial  ending of 2001 always turns people away from this film. Instead of  trying to give my opinion of the what it means and what my idea of  2001's meaning in general is, I'd like to discuss the fact that the  ending serves to leave the movie open-ended. Kubrick has stated that he  inteded to make 2001 open for discussion. He left its meaning in the  hands of the viewer. By respecting the audience's intelligence, Kubrick  allowed his movie to be the beginning, not the end, of a meaningful  discussion on man's past, present, and future. The beauty of 2001 is  that the ending need not mean anything deep, it can just be a purely  plot driven explanation and the entire movie can be viewed as an  entertaining journey through space. No other movie, save the great  Citizen Kane, leaves itself open to discussion like 2001. It is truly  meant to be a surreal journey that involves not only the eye but the  mind. Instead of waiting in long lines for the Phantom Menace, rent a  widescreen edition of 2001 and enjoy the greatest cinematic experience.


                
I write this review just after hearing of Stanley Kubrick's death. It's a great loss, and I write about 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, because I feel it is the consummate Kubrick film, the one he will be most remembered for. It is a picture like no other, not only revolutionizing science fiction, but changing the way films are conceptualized. It was probably America's first 'art' film and has inspired the likes of George Lucas and countless other writers and directors.Aside from its visual greatness, the reason the film spawns so much discussion and analysis is because so many people have so many different interpretations of it. Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke, his co-writer, had a vision, but we have never really found out what was going through their minds. Of course, the skinny on its 'message' is how technology of the future will take over humanity and decide the course of our lives unless we are careful. 2001's ending is one of hope, a version of our rebirth through the star-child's flight back to earth. It is meaningless to many, but discerning filmgoers will understand.Although 2001 does not have the wicked, dark humor of DR. STRANGELOVE or CLOCKWORK ORANGE, or contain strong, eccentric characters that filled his earlier works like PATHS OF GLORY or SPARTACUS, I still feel he would've liked to be remembered most for this. If anything, HAL will be his most memorable character, dangerous, murderous, and artificial. It was a half-decade in the making at a time when Hollywood was still churning out dull musicals and just waking up to the New Wave of French and Italian cinema. Kubrick was a maverick director who made great films on his own terms, his own time, and for everyone else to marvel at. He will be missed.


                
Mankind's Self awakening is the theme of "2001: A Space Odyssey", a process that unfolds along a space-time continuum. We "see" our primordial past, and we "infer" a cosmic future. The powers of intuition thus become the doors of perception, in our ongoing collective journey.From this transcendental perspective, a conventional, egocentric plot seems superfluous. Our frenzied conflicts and self-important dialogue are consumed in evolutionary change, and are irrelevant in a cosmos that is vast beyond comprehension. It's a tough lesson for a vain and aggressive species. Not surprising then that some of us huff and puff about the film's slowness and minimal story. For perceptive viewers, the remuneration is an inspirational sense of wonder and awe.In this film, which is mostly visual, geometric symbols guide our intuition. Circles and arcs represent nature. Right angles represent conscious intelligence. Some people think the sleek, black monolith is a Von Neumann probe. Maybe. Without doubt, the monolith is a visual metaphor for an extraterrestrial intelligence whose physical form is never shown. Mystery is more profound than explanation."2001 ... " is unique among films in content and scope. The cinematography is out-of-this-world, the special and visual effects are breathtaking, and the classical music is sublime. I rarely use the word "masterpiece" to describe a movie. But Stanley Kubrick's "2001: A Space Odyssey" is art in the highest sense, like Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa", or Vincent Van Gogh's "The Starry Night".


                
This movie is certainly one of the greatest films ever made. It is a story told in a steady pace, told mostly not by words but by cinematic means of expression. Perfect blend of spectacular special effects and classical music bring to life creations of human imagination in both realistic and poetical way. The story itself is quite simple at a first glance. As the title implies, there is an archetypal journey, a motive repeated for thousands of years. This motive was always used not only to depict a trip in space and time, and beyond, but also had rich philosophic meaning. The film is a poetical contemplation of most exciting eternal questions. It is not just an odyssey of a person; it is an odyssey of our species. The film is great by itself, yet, in my case, the impression from it will always be mingled with that from the book. I've read it at the age of 10, really not thinking about problems like 'what is the relationship between evolution of humankind and development of human morality'. But the impression was great enough to make me fall for entire genre of science fiction.The day I learned '2001' got only special effects Oscar and was not even nominated for the Best Picture was the day when 'Academy Award' completely became two words meaning nothing to me.


                
I spent many a sleepless night after watching 2001. Not only because of the psychological horror (of which 2001 is a masterpiece) but also because of the way it brought me (a restless soul) some clarity to the way I observe the universe. It changed my way of thinking in a very profound way. And after reading the novel (by Arthur C. Clarke) I found myself once again inspired (a writer as I am) by the level of imagination.The Space Odyssey is not something one can just "go and see". One has to be ready for it, or it cannot be understood. In fact I don't think it can be understood at all, at least not all of it at once. It is a philosophical journey to the infinite and beyond, a masterpiece of it's genre and still after 32 years technically quite impressive all the way to the powerful musical soundtrack featuring 'Also spracht Zarathustra' by Richard Strauss and 'Blue Danube' by Johann Strauss.Take all the time you want, but eventually you are going to have to see this film. If it can bring some order and understanding to the universe of a struggling artist like me, it can certainly do it for you as well.Or maybe I'm just plain crazy...


                
A whimsical, often spectacular view of a future in which advances in technology dominate the world. It is well shot and although slow-moving it is intense and enjoyable throughout. The featuring of classical music to establish atmosphere works brilliantly; it provides a feeling of awe, mystery and intrigue <U+0096> the same aura that Walt Disney worked in creating 'Fantasia'. The special effects, both sound and visual, are still spellbinding by the standards of today's technology. Aside from the technical pluses of the film, it stands strong as it is one of not many films out there that has something important to say about humankind, and where the human race is heading in terms of our increasing reliance on machines and our unquenchable thirst to discover. Despite an ending that is hard to understand, it is even harder to overlook this film a true cinema classic.


                
Like a Circle around the human condition, 2001 starts at the beginning, skips the middle, and proceeds to the ending, right back where we started. Noting the weakness of words compared to image(s), Kubrick wisely dispenses with dialogue, preferring the power and essence of the scenery, and allowing the intelligence of the audience to do the deciphering.  Or not, depending on the audience.A monolith in cinematic history, 2001 is a high water mark of direction, execution, and achievement.  If one considers the ambition of the film (a film about everything), and the measure of success the film achieved to that end, a very sound argument for this being the greatest of all films can be made.


                
I'm always surprised, given that the famous title track of 2001 is called "Also sprach Zarathustra", that nobody (nobody I've read, anyway) has noted the parallels between the movie and Nietzsche's famous work, "Also sprach Zarathustra". The idea of man's rebirth into a star child; an infant form of an indescribably more advanced being, is an explicit part of N.'s "Zarathustra"; there is a prominent passage called "On how a camel becomes a lion, and a lion becomes a child", in which N. describes the first incarnation of the overman as a child, transcending both the ascetic, altruistic side of man (the camel; always asking to bear more weight) and the rapacious, brutish, will-to-power side of man (the lion). The fact that the song plays during the star child sequence can hardly be coincidence. And also, Zarathustra said that "man is a rope tied between beasts and the overman." The structure of the movie fits that description: a brief history of man as beast, until we become truly man by mastering weapons and acquiring reason, then a long sequence about man (the rope, as it were), and then a brief glimpse of the overman. The inscrutability of how these transformations occurred, and the suggestion that an external force caused them, is also Nietzschean; in "Zarathustra", he makes it pretty clear that he doesn't have a clue how people are going to be able to enact these changes themselves and suggests that we will have to depend on an outsider (Zarathustra) to show us how to "go under". Bowman's psychedelic sequence at the near-end could be seen as Kubrick's best 1960's-style attempt at depicting the mystical "going under".I know these parallels are pretty broad, and almost certainly have been noted elsewhere despite the fact that I have not personally seen it. But I just wanted to mention them, if for no other reason than to try to dispel the myth that Nietzsche was ultimately a gloomy philosopher. Few people find the ending of 2001 to be gloomy, and it is in my opinion, explicitly and unmistakeably Nietzschean. The case could certainly be made that 2001 is above all a dramatization of "Zarathustra" updated for the modern age. Feel free to disregard the outright snobbishness of my tying everything to Nietzsche.


                
If the Earth was about to blow up and I could choose only 1 film to survive us, it would definitely be this. What's funny is "2001" isn't even my favourite movie. But I believe it tells the story of humankind better than anything else I've ever seen on the big screen. Essentially it asks the age old question "what is the meaning of life?", and for my money, it provides a very satisfying answer.What makes it such a phenomenal work of art is that it is able to address some of the most divisive, incompatible human attitudes (in particular, religion) and present us with a model that we ALL can accept. Judeo-Christians, Muslims, Hindus, Scientologists, Fundamentalists, Existentialists, Atheists and even Satanists can find truth in this film because it applies no labels. Like the mysterious yet commanding "black box" that appears in the film, it remains exactly that: a sealed black box which can be anything we choose to see.The black box may represent God. Or it may represent science. Or it may represent history. Or it may represent individuality. Make up your own mind, and you will learn a little something of yourself. Really, this movie is like a puzzle with infinite solutions, designed to teach us about ourselves by what we see in it. It's truly interactive. No other film has ever made me feel this way.The plot is almost irrelevant, so I won't bother summarizing. What you should pay attention to are the themes and questions the movie addresses.1) Are we alone in the universe? 2) Is there a point to life? 3) Are we heading in the right direction?By the time the movie ends, you should have an answer to all three, and yet all our answers will be different.SO WHAT THE HECK IS THE MOVIE ABOUT? OK, since you've read this far, I'll give you an idea. The movie is about evolution. Not just your Darwinian natural selection stuff, but a compelling proposal that evolution was (or continues to be?) guided by some extraordinary force. If you like, this is the marriage of God & science that we've all been waiting for. Or if you like, it's a testament to pure science. Or pure God. Like I said, Kubrick allows for every possibility. And I have to hand it to him for remaining so tight-lipped that nobody ever knew what his personal feelings were on the matter.The film starts in prehistoric times with a tribe of moribund ape-like creatures on the edge of either extinction or excellence. Then we jump ahead a million years or so to find humans in a similar state of stagnation yet on the edge of another fantastic evolutionary step forward. Finally we jump forward to catch a glimpse of what evolution may have in store for us in the not-too-distant future. If it sounds like a documentary, I suppose it almost is, except without Marlon Perkins talking over it. We are expected to fill in the details ourselves, and that is the beauty of what this film does. It takes a purely objective approach and manages to lead us to our own satisfying conclusions.A word of caution. I don't think you're supposed to "get" this film on one viewing. I certainly didn't, and I've never met anyone who did. Even Roger Ebert (who ranks this as the greatest film of all time) was initially lukewarm about it when it premiered in '68. So if you feel like you just got cheated, or if you have no idea what everyone's raving about, please be patient and give it some time to sink in. I saw this movie when I was 16 and loved the middle part but hated the ending. Decades later I saw it again and suddenly understood it better. But I confess there's still a lot I haven't realized. I suppose as I get older and hopefully wiser I'll continue to interpret new ideas. And that's why this is the greatest movie of all time. It is about evolution, and moreso it EVOLVES WITH US.


                
When two years ago for first time I saw a space Odyssey I get nothing from it. It seems to me nonsense. But when I saw it again a few days ago I'm completely mesmerized by this piece of art. I'm not going to talk about the beginning of the movie that shows us the process of progress. The cube is the thing that I'm going to talk about. I think it's a symbol of ignorance. It doesn't matter how much we make progress in science because there's always unknowns for human even more than before. How much did monkeys and professors know about the cube? Which group has more questions? For sure it's professors who have more questions and more unknowns. The spaceship's style is like a sperm and we can see it better in the last minutes when the spaceship's body could be seen as a sperm like moving light. I think it means that our space Odyssey is like a sperm's journey to the womb. And our knowledge of the world around is as same as a child's knowledge of surroundings in the womb. That's why we can see the cube in the room at the end of the Odyssey in front of an old sperm and a young and new infant.
(r#54)Only Stanley Kubrick could create a film like 2001. It is unlike anything made before or after it and whether you like it or not, it is an unforgettable experience. I urge anyone who disliked this film to give it at least one more chance - I can honestly say that the film was way too far off the wall for me to appreciate it the first time I watched it.2001 is overflowing with iconic images, from the opening scene accompanied by Richard Strauss' "Thus Spoke Zarathustra", to the bone being tossed into the air by the ape. It has become such a huge phenomenon that even today TV series, movies, parodies and comics continue to spoof it. It is impossible to hear The Blue Danube without associating it to Kubrick's masterpiece. And that is what it is, in every sense of the word: a masterpiece. Nothing is half-baked or average about 2001 - it is a work of enormous attention to detail and love for the art of movie-making itself. Although Kubrick continued to direct amazing movies like The Shining, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket (which were all far more accessible movies) after 2001, he couldn't top this: his crowning achievement.It's easy to see how viewers may be put off by 2001 - it doesn't follow the usual movie formula where the plot comes to a conclusion at the end. In fact, neither before nor after 2001 has a movie been made the same way. Plot line and characters are more or less redundant in this film: It's all in the images and music, and what it all means. I won't go into the point of 2001 since I haven't read the book and I think it is up to each viewer to decide for himself what it all means.The movie jumps from the very dawn of man's use of weapons to a time when space is heavily trafficked, and continues to show us the fate of some unlucky astronauts at the hands of a super-intelligent computer called HAL-9000. I won't spoil what happens in the end but I will say that if you could see it coming, you must be some kind of super genius; as far as I'm concerned it is the single least predictable ending for a movie, ever.Kubrick is the only director that I know of who has portrayed space in the most realistic way possible: vast, endless, dark, empty, and soundless. It's admirable that a director goes out of his way to make sure no sounds are heard in space, but rather than let this make the movie dreary and dull, Kubrick uses this to his advantage: the chilling silence of some scenes actually help build up the atmosphere in a way that no movie has done before. Some scenes are outright scary, working at an almost subconscious level. Kubrick has always been a master of creating moods and emotions with the viewer, and 2001 is the prime example of this: The climactic scene in the bathroom is unbelievably frightening, and Kubrick creates a sense of dread purely without monsters, murderers or loud music. It's amazing.The movie is highly meditative and definitely not the one to watch if you want a loud, action-packed Star Wars-type adventure. The long periods of near-complete silence, the low-key dialogue, HAL's monotonous voice (a stroke of genius) and the scattered pieces of classical music set you in a state of complete relaxation and makes you think. I realize this is highly personal and will not work for all viewers. The special effects are pitch-perfect, still as good today as they were almost 40 years ago. While the digital effects of the Star Wars prequels will be outdated in 10 years, 2001 will continue to stun people with its shockingly realistic and believable effects. Although I would have preferred Kubrick to win the Best Director Oscar for this (as well as many of his other films), the Best Effects award is completely deserved. 2001 still beats many of today's movies in terms of best effects.If you've grown tired of mediocre movies, give 2001 another chance. At first viewing, I thought it was tiresome and drawn out. At second viewing, it was the most perfect movie ever made. If you're open minded, this is for you, if Pirates of the Caribbean is your favourite movie of all time, it's not - and I don't say this to insult fans of Pirates, I'm just saying that this film might not be up your alley.I hope I don't sound too pretentious because I know how horrible many of 2001's rabid fans can be. I know for sure that it is not certain you'll enjoy 2001 - but I urge you to give it a chance. It is the ultimate acquired taste, and in my opinion, a masterpiece of epic proportions.


                
In late 1968, I got my dad to drive me to Hollywood (I was ten) to see "2001" during its roadshow engagement. Earlier that year, during a family trip to San Francisco, we had stopped to eat at a Howard Johnson's diner, and with our meal I had received a comic book promoting the film. (If you'll remember, one of Kubrick's less astute predictions was that Howard Johnson's would be the food franchise on the Space Station.) After the mind-blowing revelation of that comic book, I suffered through four or five months waiting for my chance to see it. It took two tries. The first try was the weekend that the Apollo 7 mission became the first to circle the moon. My dad took not only me but also my mom and six-year-old brother. We drove the thirty miles to Hollywood......only to find that "2001" was sold out. Quickly we checked the paper for a suitable alternative. There was an ad for another interesting looking sci-fi film playing just a few blocks up Hollywood Boulevard... "Barbarella." This was literally just a week or two before the ratings system went into affect, so the only way we had to judge the suitability of the subject matter was by the ad, which was illustrated with goofy, fun-looking cartoons. "I wanna see Bar-bella!" my brother cried excitedly. It looked good to me too. So off we went. Try to imagine sitting next to your fairly prudish mother in 1968, watching -- without any warning -- Jane Fonda's zero-gravity striptease. And then every stripe of fetishism and polymorphous perversity, under only the thinnest satirical sci-fi camouflage. I remember afterward, out in the lobby, my dad kneeling by my sniffling brother, gently explaining "Those dolls couldn't really have been biting her <U+0096> they COULDN'T really bite her because their teeth were angled in<U+0085> if they were really going to bite her their teeth would have had to angle OUT. So you see<U+0085>" But I digress. On our second try, dad took just me. This time we got in. The theater was huge, with dark red curtains. The screen was huge, but thankfully not deeply curved like a Cinerama screen. (Over the decades since then, I have seen "2001" several times at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood, where the screen IS deeply curved. Every time the spaceship Discovery is shown from the side, it curves up at the ends like a smile. By the nature of its visual geometry "2001" was meant to be seen on a FLAT screen.) The overture began <U+0096> weird otherworldly sounds like I'd never heard before <U+0096> as the auditorium lights slowly dimmed. And then, that amazing stylized MGM logo, created specifically for "2001" and never used at the head of any other film (although MGM did later adopt it for a time as their corporate logo). And then the thrilling swell of "Also Sprach Zarathustra," and that awesome lineup of the moon, the Earth and the Sun! An image like nothing ever seen before on a movie screen. Or in real life either -- "2001" was showing us vistas of our solar system that NASA photography had yet to capture even approximately. Half the time I had no idea what was going on. But I didn't care. To me it seemed like a film FROM the year 2001. I was enthralled, and goaded to TRY to understand. More than any other film I can think of, "2001" really lived up to that oft-misused cliché phrase: it made me think. Driving home that night, I remember doing the math: in 2001 I'll be forty-three. I'll SEE all that! My dad died in 2001.


                
This movie is not just good, its amazing. Besides providing us with good performances, original plot, fantastic special effects, thoughtful messages and a lot more, it was an, until then, completely unseen world to the public. This is the first sci-fi movie that takes us out into the unknown space of our galaxy with such splendid effects and mind bursting reality that the audience is left without words. I am only 16 years old, and therefore I was raised into a world of modern effects and 3D animations in the movies. But nonetheless I was really, and I mean completely, blown away by the quality of these effects, even after almost 40 years. The visual effects was just one of the merits of this movie, the camera was in true Kubrick style amazing and enchanting. It feels like you are consumed by the screen and sucked into this surreal world (especially in the round control room or whatever you call it). The effects, the camera and the sheer size of this movie caught me of my guards even though I had seen the rating before I bought it. But this movie has more to it than this. The meaning of this movie can also be interpreted as you wish yourself, even though I think there are some clear points concerning humanity (also true Kubrick style). How humanity on top of its evolution is just maintenance on board, and therefore not needed by the computer, one of humanities tools. How we in space appear like babies, learning to walk once more, losing control of our tools in zero-gravity, breathing through equipment as fish out of water. On the peak of evolution, we set out into the never-ending adventure as simple primates. Many might think that the length and slow pace of this movie is, boring? ridicules? or just a waste of time. But before you can jump to those conclusions, think about why Kubrick spends time with calm music and a spaceship in the middle of space for several minutes. This is to illustrate the beauty of it. Beauty, beauty is in many cases not granted the rightful respect by viewers. Kubrick wants to show us beauty, and if we do not succumb to it and relax, we can not enjoy this film as it was intended. This is not an ordinary movie, we can not just sit and watch as we can with some other movies, this requires time, thoughts and above all commitment and feelings to watch. All of this together, makes this one of the greatest achievements in the world of moving pictures. 10/10 Let me know if you agree with me.


                
Pure and simple, this is one of the greatest films ever made. If one were to ever question the genius of Stanley Kubrick, they only need to indulge in this masterpiece to be persuaded to think otherwise. There are so many positives that can be taken from this picture that it is almost impossible to find a starting point.The film (which was also co-written by Kubrick) begins in ancient times, where we are introduced to the Neanderthals. Primitive and lacking intellect, they encounter a strange monolith buried in the ground. Shortly after this encounter, one of the primitives discovers a weapon that they use to not only hunt and fend for themselves, but also to evolve. As a matter of fact, evolution plays a crucial role in the development of this film, as the movie itself seemingly "evolves" from one era to another. Later, we are whisked away into the 21st century, where a group of scientists embark on a mission to study a new monolith that has been discovered in the far reaches of the galaxy. Their ship is controlled by HAL 9000; a computer that is flawlessly flawed as we find out later in the movie.Released way back in 1968, the movie has special effects that are absolutely breathtaking. As a matter of fact, upon viewing this film I had a difficult time believing that it wasn't filmed only a few years ago. The scenes might take a long time to unfold, but that is the beauty of the film. The classical music and the effects are used here to illustrate the glory of mankind's evolution thanks to the monoliths that we have encountered. Music plays a critical role in all of Kubrick's films, but here I feel it has the most impact overall. This film is one that every connoisseur of fine cinema should see at least once. I am giving this a very enthusiastic 10/10.
There is not much new I can say that hasn't alredy been said in regards to the plot points and themes of Kubrick's magnum opus, so I won't even try.What I will say is that I saw this film at a cinema in Belfast where it is being screened to celebrate the 50th anniversary of its original theatrical release.I have seen 2001 many times on a TV screen and always enjoyed it. How can you not love a film with HAL? But seeing it at a cinema was a completely different experience and I was simply astonished by what I saw. Here is a film 50 years old and it looked mint. The set pieces are incredible and all I could do was marvel at what I was looking at. It really gave me a new appreciation for what Stanley Kubrick and everyone involved in the production crew achieved. As I said already, I have nothing new to say regarding the overall themes of 2001: A Space Odyssey but one thing I will do is recommend that if it is being screened in a cinema near you, seize the opportunity to watch this masterpiece on the biggest stage of all, where it belongs.


                
I find the divergent comments about this film quite interesting. It's either a masterpiece and suprmely involving or it's a worthless boring fake. I think if you were in a Cinerama theatre and had the experience that Kubrick intended, there would be no doubt that you had just seen one of the great films of all time. The pacing of this film is absolutely dependent upon the overwhelming size of the image and the detail of the soundtrack. There is no way to describe in words the power of the first time I heard the Zarathustra theme in a Cinerama theatre. It went way beyond what you would experience even in a concert hall since the music surrounded you and the volume and fidelity were simply overwhelming. This is a film that had people shaking and giddy following the title card! And so it goes for the rest of the film. What may seem slow and uneventful on a video screen was just what was required for an audience to absorb all the visual and aural information. Those stills for example, at the start of the film were accompanied by desert sounds that were so real you expected a cricket to hop out from under your seat. And the long sequences outside the Jupiter ship involving the AE35 unit are entirely engrossing and set one up for the silent horror that ensues. I just watched the film again for the I don't know how manyth time, and every time I see it I am surprised by threads I never noticed. This time I was amazed that the film is so much about murder. Murder as the basis for evolution, murder of humans by machines, murder of machines by humans. And has there ever been a greater metaphor for our technology dominated society that the sequence of the man jogging in his giant squirrel cage while the saddest music you have ever heard plays on the soundtrack?


                
A culturally significant masterpiece of its time. 2001 A space odyssey is quite possibly the greatest science fiction film (and book) of all time. When people mention the notion of space travel in film this movie arguably one of the greatest of the 20th century always springs to mind. Just the ideas and themes presented in this film are truly ground-breaking. Before we had Gravity, interstellar, star wars, we had 2001, the film that started it all. From the dawn of time sequence where the film begins we soon witness one of the most awkward plot changes in cinematic history. Suddenly we are thrust into outer space, into the modern era witnessing a spacecraft descending into a space station and we soon witness a group of astronauts on a journey to the planet Jupiter. Kubrick's attention to detail and predictions of future technologies were simply spot on. The video phone in the space station, recognise that? It's what we now know as Skype. There doesn't have to be a lot of dialogue for one to understand the very notion of what is happening during the film in fact at least half an hour of the film there is no dialogue whatsoever. I wouldn't even consider there to be a lead actor in the film, in actual fact the central character in this film happens to be an artificial intelligent being known as the "HAL-9000", the central computer that helps the crew control their ship en route to Jupiter. 2001 A space Odyssey set the benchmark for idea of 'Man Vs Machine' and these ideas were later evident in future works such as Bladerunner and Bicentennial man. Also we must remember this film was released before the days of flashy CGI style special effects yet the way Kubrick gave you the sensation of being in outer space was just awe inspiring. Not to mention quite possibly one of the most spectacular uses of Strauss's music in cinematic history. This film does everything a science fiction film should. It also was the first film to get all of the science behind space travel accurate. So if you haven't already done so, do yourself a favour and watch this groundbreaking, phenomenal film.


                
Spoilers ahead.2001: a Space Odyssey is without a doubt the most challenging and successful film by the late Stanley Kubrick.  This is not a film that you watch in order to be entertained or amused.  Instead it provides you with a banquet of food for thought, images that linger in the mind's eye long after the movie itself is over.  It is a film that you could meditate on.     The film intentionally offers us more questions then it can answer,  it is made to puzzle and mystify, but leaves the viewer nevertheless with a sense of awe and reverence (that is allowing that he has engaged himself in the process of viewing it, enjoyment of this film requires some effort on the viewers part)  the questions that it does pose are large and ominous, concerning the genesis and destiny of the human race, it's ultimate place in the cosmic design and the existence or lack of some creative intelligence behind the structure of the universe itself.     The first of the films Four Quartets gives us a distinct view of the species past.  We see our distant ancestors, half-ape half human, in a state of near starvation.  The climate has destroyed most of the plant life and the vegetarian beasts are near starvation.  An extra-terestial object, a perfectly smooth and angular black monolith, appears and the animals are simultaneously inspired by it's presence to tool-making and violence.  They are transformed overnight into carnevores, and when two tribes encounter each other near a water source, the tribe that has developed tool making capacity, as well as beligerence, soundly destroys the neighboring tribe. The new chief of the winning tribe, empowered by the first vestiges of technology triumphantly throws the bone that he used as a weapon in the air. We see the bone transformed into a floating satellite, which contains nuclear weapons.  We soon learn that the world is torn apart by nuclear paranoia.  The characteristics inspired by the monument's appearance that once helped us to survive now threaten our very existence.     Once again humanity is in crisis, once again the unearthly presence represented by the black monolith will step in to aid humanity in the next step in it's development.  On an exploration of the Moon a monolith identical to the earlier one we have seen is discovered.  The governments of the world, normally mortal enemies, have come together in secret to discuss the implications.  A mission is arranged. the monument has been engaged in some kind of radio communication with Jupiter.  A few men will travel to the destination of the transmission.  Most of them will, for most of the time, be kept in a state of suspended animation.  The pilot of the spacecraft will be HAL a super computer who has been programmed to imitate all  of the traits of human beings.     The film has many outstanding sequences.  As usual for Kubrick the use of classical music is outstanding.  Most memorable are "Blue Danube" and "Also Spake Zarathustra" (particularly appropriate given the film's theme of transcending ordinary consciousness.)  The cinematography is particularly excellent as well, after a single viewing the film's final 30 minutes will haunt you for the rest of your life.     The character of HAL is the most important from the view of the film's central thesis.  In imitating all the characteristics of human beings he comes to have their negative traits as well.  The paranoia he develops which almost leads to the mission' s ruin is an exact mirror of the paranoia that has allowed the political situation back on earth to reach a point of desperate crisis.  The film suggests that these are the traits that we must leave behind if we are to proceed to the next phase in our evolution.     The architecture of the film is also meaningful.  The designs of many of the spacecraft are intended to suggest reproductive organs and the process of birth and rebirth, the central motif of the movie.  The ending of 2001 is the most spectacular and triumphant ever filmed.     This movie takes a view of life similar to that presented in the poetry of William Butler Yeats and James Joyce's novel Finnegan's Wake.  It posits a pattern to history and human evolution that is cyclic, yet progressive, repeating the same events at large intervals, yet with the human race as developing according to the will of a being with a larger purpose in mind. Though we never learn what this purpose is, the film assures us that the human race is not meant for failure, it's destiny is grand beyond it's capacity to imagine.  It continues to amaze me that in spite of this film many people continue to regard Kubrick as a misanthrope.     This is a religious film, not in the conventional sense of adhering to any specific creed, but because of it's invocation of wonder at the vast panorama of existence and it's involvement with the deepest and most vital questions of purpose and truth.       In the hands of any other director, this would all be perhaps a little too much.  Hollywood's view of life is too puny, usually to encompass the grandeur and intensity of a vision such as this one.  But Kubrick was a visionary, he directs with utter confidence, not only that he can handle material of this kind, but that he is the only one to do it.  The process of making this film used all of his creative resources.  The writing partnership with Arthur C Clarke is the most fruitful in cinematic history. Kubrick had to invent some of the special effects that were used in the movie's astounding climax.  The resources to bring his vision to life did not exist at the time, so he brought them into existence.
     2001 is a absolutely unique movie experience.  Those who miss out on it do so at the detriment of their own intellectual and imaginative capacities.
You've probably already heard all of the praise that has been given to this film. And, really, all of this praise is truly deserved! It is a beautiful work of art, and even if you didn't like it (which is perfectly understandable), you should REALLY still appreciate the special effects in this film. It changed science fiction film history, and just film history in general.I mean, if the Academy hadn't given the Oscar to Kubrick for best visual effects, it'd probably be the biggest Oscar snub of all time! Of course, I don't take the Oscars all too seriously, so it wouldn't impact my life or anything.The film is broken up into a few parts, all eventually being connected to a black monolith. The unconventional structure of the film makes "2001: A Space Odyssey" even more interesting.Besides the unconventional structure, this film is experimental in many ways. It has some pretty experimental visuals, filmmaking techniques (including a particularly famous jump cut) , and a powerful and strange ending that begs to be analyzed by everyone who sees it! While I'm not the biggest fan of over-analyzing movies, this is definitely an exception through my eyes. The film clearly wants the viewers to interpret and analyze it, and that is what makes it even more interesting.Kubrick is clearly one of the greatest filmmakers of all time. The already mentioned experimental techniques and visual effects have truly influenced some of today's great filmmakers. The film also has a genius use of classical music. The music and the visuals match together beautifully, A lot of people may believe that this film is boring or nonsensical. While it is understandable to have those opinions, I was never bored during this film. It has intensity, mystery, and, of course, beauty!


                
Kubrick's sci fi epic has left me, like many others, divisive over it's greatness. My first viewing went as well as expected. I criticized the slow pacing and often irritating sound design, with a special emphasis on the confusing final 20 minutes of the movie. However, even weeks after watching it, it still wouldn't leave my mind. Upon recently watching it for a second time, I am starting to understand what Kubrick went for. Studying the film led me to see the philosophical themes presented by the movie. Themes of evolution, existentialism and creation. These themes were able to grant me a more accepting view on the film. As for the more materialistic parts of the film, the visual effects are utterly magnificent. If Kubrick intended to inspire awe, then that was firmly accomplished here. This whole movie is essentially eye sex, for want of a less-dirty term.2001: A Space Odyssey is one of those movies that gets better upon multiple viewings and hopefully, upon future rewatches, I'll be able to accept this movie for what it is...a beautiful exploration into humanity's search for answers


                
I had no idea what this would be like the first time I saw it. I thought it would be boring and plotless, but I was completely wrong.2001: A Space Odyssey is the best film I've ever watched, Sci-Fi or not. Almost everything about it is perfect. If it wasn't for 2001, current science fiction would be more "fun with strings and fishbowls" nonsense.The special effects and models still look good today. The attention to detail on the spacecraft interiors is near obsessive. One one could sit through a viewing just pointing out tiny details on the monitors. But that's not really the point of this film.In fact, 2001 isn't really a science fiction movie at all. It looks like pure science fiction, but not if you watch closely. There are several plotlines about evolution, the use of weapons, etc.I also seem to like everything that alot of people didn't like. Kubrick made a film that was made for people to THINK about, not a movie for quick thrills. Space is huge and completely silent; Astronauts aren't actors . Why can't people seem to grasp these theories? Critics blasted Kubrick upon release apparently for lack of explosions and no overblown dance numbers. Now no critic dares say a negative comment on 2001 or else ruin their career.The brilliance of 2001 has now deteriorated into the nonsense of "Independence Day" and "Armageddon." I almost wanted to barf when somebody called THOSE serious think pieces.


                
