I will never get back the three hours of life this film has stolen from me.The film is basically a psychedelic drug trip disguised as an important creative process. I'd love to know what they were on when this film was being made.Its also the most historically-inaccurate film in existence; 2001 has come and gone without any of the events or predictions taking place.Characters are unlikeable, design is simplistic and everything just rambles on without any sense or logic to it.And the ending is probably the worst of it: its supposed to be thought-provoking but the only thought that entered my mind is "What the F$*K is going on?!" I'd say for anyone looking for serious entertainment purposes, AVOID this film at all cost and choose a sci-fi movie that ISN'T stuck up its own @$$.


                
What can this film tell us in 2004? Almost nothing. First of all is slow, much too slow. Second it wants to be a beautiful film, but it is not a beautiful FILM, it is a collage of impressionistic pictures, which are unfolding in a slow manner. If I want to see some beautiful pictures I go to a photograph exhibition. A film is dynamic, it moves. Beauty in a film is created in other ways. A film is not a power point slide show. Third is pretentious since it wants to say something 'very' profound and uses all the tools to signal that. You can say something deep in a relax mode, without all that symbols which connote with high culture and vanguard art. So it is an highly overrated film.


                
I bought this movie because "2001: A Space Odyssey", was one of the "classics" I had not yet seen. I had a brief prior understanding of the plot (the whole Hal thing), but was fairly in the dark about this movie. I was excited when I sat down to watch it.I can honestly say I gave this movie a shot, but for me, this movie was something akin to watching a plant grow for three hours. I am sure there are some that find this movie to be a masterpiece. But I have to believe for most of the public, this movie was almost intentionally boring.Now intellectuals will claim, "You just don't understand the brilliance of 2001: A Space Odyssey". Well I am hear to tell you it it has nothing to do with understanding...rather its about "wanting to understand". I have no interest in spending 3+ hours of my life being supremely bored, trying to analyze what Stanley Kubrick was trying to communicate 35+ years ago.The purpose of any movie is to entertain, and if after being entertained you can take away a deeper meaning in a movie, then all the better. But you first must have an entertainment value, which in my opinion this movie was devoid of.When I finally hit the stop button on this movie, I could not describe how let down I was. I am not into space movies all that much. Lasers, phasers and androids are not my thing. But one of my favorite movies was "Alien" - A slow paced movie that thrived into a classic because of the incredible suspense associated with it. There was a great payoff after the first hour of waiting.When I was in college, in my Literature class we used to sit around for hours discussing what the author (i.e Twain, Hemmingway, Poe, etc...) "really meant" in his book. I always used to suggest he meant what was written in his/her book, hence why he wrote it. I was usually dismissed as "not getting it" as others suggested some deeper meaning, something the author did not write, but somehow what he actually meant.OK, whatever. Everyone is different. Some people see 2001: A Space Odyssey as a masterpiece. I see it as an extremely over-hyped movie, the most boring movie I have ever seen and I will never watch again.And in the rare case this movie had some deeper meaning that Stanley Krubrick wanted you to find, I have to ask....Who Cares?


                
There are spoilers throughout this review.This starts at the "Dawn of Man". A bunch of apes find a black monolith and start to evolve slowly. Then it cuts to 2001. A black monolith has been discovered on the moon--buried. When the light hits the monolith it starts to emit a message to the moons of Jupiter. Astronauts David Bowman (Keir Dullea), Frank Poole (Gary Lockwood) and some other astronauts (in suspended animation) are sent to Jupiter to investigate. However their computer HAL (with the creepy voice of Douglas Rain) goes crazy and kills everybody except for Dullea. Dullea gets to Jupiter and "enters" a black monolith floating in space. He's then in a room being watched over by alien beings. He ages rapidly and dies...but becomes a "star child". It seems he has been chosen (for whatever reason) to show the next step in evolution to man. Basically the monolith is a gift from some alien beings who watch over the entire universe. They helped the human race evolve. The monolith on the moon was buried so man would dig it up. When they got to it the signal sent to Jupiter was to alert the aliens that man was ready for his next step.That's MY view of it. Everybody has different interpretations of this movie.I have vague recollections of seeing this back in 1968 at the age of 6 (the film is G rated). I remember the apes at the beginning scaring me...and then falling asleep. Since then I've seen it multiple times at revival theatres and, on one occasion, saw a brand new print with stereo at a play house. Yes--the special effects are impressive. Yes--the music is great. But the movie is long, far too slow and just boring! It moves at such a slow pace that it's sleep-inducing. There's very little dialogue but that's a blessing because what there is is pretty lousy. The human characters have no personality whatsoever and speak in monotones and simple short sentences. Lockwood and Dullea are supposedly buddies but I never got the feeling that they even liked each other! This isn't anything against either actor--these poor guys are given nothing to work with. For instance when HAL kills Lockwood and the other astronauts what's Dullea's reaction? Nothing. He barely raises an eyebrow. I don't blame Dullea--I think he was just playing it like director Stanley Kubrick told him. How can you care about characters who are given no personality or motivations? You know there's a problem when HAL comes across as more real than Poole and Bowman! Also HAL gets paranoid and kills Frank. Could someone please tell me how a COMPUTER gets paranoid???? They give an explanation (sort of) in "2010" but it was pretty stupid. There are a few good things about this. Douglas Rains' voice of HAL is suitably creepy. Lockwood strips down to his shorts at one point showing his muscular body. The entrance into the star gate is still impressive (if far too long).People seem to forget that a lot of people hated this movie when it first came out. MGM executives thought they had a disaster on their hands and most people couldn't make heads or tales out of the plot. During a break in a premiere screening for studio executives someone said, "Something better happen in the second half or we're dead!" But, inexplicably, audiences seemed to love it and it's now regarded as a masterpiece. Aside from being thoroughly bored by it I find it cold and impersonal too. The message seems to be that man is an insignificant little thing in the universe. It's all in the hands of these gods and you can't do anything to change it. That's a pretty creepy message but the movie drags out everything to a ridiculous degree. Boring, slow and sleep-inducing. The 2 is for the special effects and Dullea and Lockwood (I like both actors despite this movie).
i am so sorry movielovers! Especially to those who actually appreciated this movie, because the only reason this was ever made is that back then every soul in the movie industry was so wasted on pot/LSD/cocaine that they thought this would make a good entertaining movie!Because people eventually you must realize that 2001 a space odyssey is plain and simply an incoherent collection of pictures. and yes I know I'm exaggerating and it has a story and I might be accused of being an ignorant culturally numb person, but I stand by my statement an firmly believe this movie to be 3++ hours of pretentious nothingness! It should have a warning label saying: Unless you have smoked something really strong, you will be bored out of your mind! PS.if you have smoked something, this is a winner!!


                
2001: A Space Odyssey, with its near universal acclaim, is one of those films seems to itself define the meaning of what it is to be a great film. I must however break from this general opinion. 2001, in my opinion, is one of the greatest wastes of potential in film history. I wanted to like this movie so bad but I just couldn't.First the movie treats you with a long black screen, then ancient hominids going about daily life around the mysterious Monolith, with no music and of course no dialogue. Once the spaceships are shown (with great Strauss music accompaniment I must say), it still takes forever to get anywhere. Eventually we meet Bowman and HAL 9000. Bowman is an incredibly dull character, but HAL on the other hand was intriguing as a villain. Sadly, the HAL storyline was anti-climactic and disappointing, as his defeat was insignificant.Then Mr. Boring, I mean Bowman, gets in a pod and travels through space, seeing all sorts of colors and extra-terrestrial sights. A wonderful piece of art, at least it could've been if it had meaning. Then he ages significantly, only to touch the Monolith and turn into a fetus.Some say you must "find what the movie means to you," but even though I have existentialist sympathies, I cannot excuse films that have no inherent meaning. 2001 is a visually spectacular yet absolute disaster of wasted potential and skill.
Out of the 16 films that Stanley Kubrick has directed this is the fifth one that I've seen and I can safely say that it's by far the worst of the bunch; it's hard to believe that this bloated bore of a film came from the same man that directed such great films as The Shining, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket, but hang on folks I have my own theory...Everyone comments on how this film is a ground breaking piece of science fiction and I must concede on those comments; 2001's visuals are astonishing, the special effects are mind-blowing and still hold up well today, the set designs are also authentic and impressive. This film has also paved the way for many other science fiction films. The problem with this film is that (aside from a very vague narrative about the evolution of mankind) there is very little else going for this film. It felt to me like Kubrick was more concerned with creating a 'Concorde' moment in the world of cinema rather than creating a film with an interesting story that will actually involve the audience. Yes it ticks all the 'technical' boxes, but there's no emotional involvement, there's no-one to care about and nothing to be interested in.Normally, a score in a film is used to evoke fear, excitement, or tension but here the score is just used for the sake of it and is massively over-used. In fact, it got to the point where the score became more irritating than anything and there were long stretches when it was used at the expense of both character development and plot development.The only mildly interesting part of this film was when the crew started to have problems with HAL, but this aspect of the plot was short-lived and the resolution to this aspect of the story was far too formulaic.2001: A Space Odyssey really does seem to be a 'marmite' film whereby you either love it or you hate. As an average film viewer who doesn't claim to have any sort of pseudo-intelligence I've got to confess that I found the whole film boring and pretentious. Don't worry Stanley I forgive you..


                
(Yes there are spoilers... a bit)I'm sure I saw this film as a child, but couldn't remember much of it aside from the images of people walking around the circumference of the space ship, and HAL's 'eye'.I have just finished watching it again and have to say that I was really bored out of my mind.Obviously there is something special about this film for some people, as the comments here and the overall rating of it are testament to... but I don't see it at all.I see: *Some quite impressive images of space flight for a film from 1968 *Some VERY long sequences where VERY LITTLE occurs *Some character setup which went absolutely no-where... (what was the point of showing us so much of the doctor who was on his way to the moon to then have him completely disappear after the visit to the monolith? I'm sure it's just another way of us being dispassionate towards the human characters or something but I just found it annoying to learn about a character and then have him disappear...) *Some extremely irritating jumps with no explanation to seemingly un-connected scenes... *And that damn final journey sequence... what's so amazing about a bunch of solarized images of the grand canyon and water? It really quite under whelmed me.I was extremely bored by the whole experience, but I am NOT going to fall into the wonderful trap that I've read a few others here have, which is to insult anyone that has a different view to themselves. Especially to the person who stated that if you didn't like the film you weren't alive... that's a beautiful way to view the world. "If you disagree with my viewpoint then you're a soulless being" Brilliant.All I'm saying is that I have no idea why this film is hailed as a classic, but that doesn't mean it shouldn't be... I just don't see it myself.
Well - same comment I made on "Rosemary's Baby" seen around the same time. I didn't like this movie then - and like it even less now. The passage of time only deteriorated my opinion of this film. Because - it is nonsense - what else can I say. Perhaps psychologists can see imagery that I don't care about - but - it is silly at best - very boring at worst. If they going to use electricity - at least use it on something worthwhile. It takes forever to get through some scenes to prove some silly point - maybe giving apes some intelligence. But - what's the point. The Monolith and its meaning are too esoteric for most audiences - it is just sheer cartoonish. I gave this a 2 rating - which is way more than it deserves. I will never be a psychologist and don't intend to deduce the hidden meanings of esoteric movies. They're not worth it. Care to reply - I'm at ml2348@att.com


                
This is my first comment on any movie ever , i never portrayed my self as a writer, but i had to take out the frustration of watching such an over hyped piece of "Art"(yup I've heard they call such movies art)and to make every possible effort to stop people like me(sci-fi lovers)from watching this crap. so i decided to share my experience with youif u are thinking of watching this movie I'll suggest you watch in 2x or a faster mode. the movie is so boring,its like watching a 30 min documentary about the working of spacecrafts in super slow motion. over 95% of the total run time of movie is without any dialogues . the scenes of space ships crossing other planets were extended to the limits. i didn't understand what the first 30 minutes of the movie were about. the background score is loud,irritating , unnecessary some times, but repetitive throughout. and for some music lovers they added 3 minutes of those irritating sounds without any images in the beginning of the movie as well as after the intermission,DVD i rented had an intermission too(the most interesting part).A tiny thing this movie lacks is the "PLOT" after 1 hr and 10 min of the movie when hall tells Dave about the malfunction i prayed that the ship would crash and the movie will end but it didn't (my bad luck perhaps there was more of it for me to watch) the only interesting sequence was when Dave tries to get back into the spaceship and hall dies,in fact this was the only part of the movie i understood. i hoped the movie would now pace up, but that was not what the film makers had in mind. if the movie wasn't boring enough,the worst was still to come that's "beyond the infinite" i couldn't sum up a thing that happens after Dave enters the monolith a series of diff colored scenes then suddenly he's in a room watching himself getting old and then he's turned into some sort of cosmic baby(what was the ending all about?)the only reason i watched this is because I'm trying to watch the top 250. and this is the only one i regret watching. the one thing that's nice about this movie are the clean camera tricks used to create the anti gravity environment even in the 60's, nothing else that's why I'll give it a generous 2/10.
I tried to watch this film years ago, but gave up after half an hour through extreme boredom. Recently I tried again, and made myself sit through the entire thing. I kept thinking that something might actually happen soon, but no. This is one of the most over-rated and tedious films I have ever seen, and I can only assume that the people who have rated it so highly were stoned at the time.


                
It's utter sophomoric tripe. Kubrick thinks the audience are absolute idiots. He focuses on a thing - then on what it represents. then on the thing. then on what is represents, then on the thing. Repeat, ad nauseum. The man can't direct for toffee. Oh yes, the special effects are good, some of the ideas in the movie are good - but the movie fails because it is utterly boring, drowning in Kubrick's own self obsession. People go on and on about the technical minutiae - like that's genius - to show the boring bits everyone else edits out - BECAUSE THEY'RE BORING! 2001 is 20 minutes of a good film stretched out over 3 hours! I am an avid reader and watcher of sci-fi. I love the genre because it provokes you to think. This movie was not thought-provoking, but sleep inducing, and caused me not to ponder the human condition, but instead how Kubrick got away with producing the navel-gazing piece of self-adulation. It practically cries out "look at me! look how clever I am! I can do things no one else does and get away with it because I am clever!" (Seems he did get away with it with all the fawning adulation he's got over the years!)


                
I didn't like this movie for many reasons - VERY BORING! It was interesting how they thought what the future would look like in this, but seriously I was very bored watching this. There was hardly any action. Although the Classical orchestra soundtrack was very nice. The visuals were very creative. Whenever this movie pops on TV, I feel like changing the station instantly. Not because it is a bad movie, just because I know what I am in for when watching this - complete and total boredom. It is a movie I saw when I was young, but I never got into the science fiction thing... because it simply wasn't real. Just like this movie - very unrealistic. I never understood half the movie anyway.


                
This movie is long. Really LONG. And not just because it lasts 2,5h but rather because there not much in it. The few moments where anything happens may in fact be very artistic and full of deep meanings but there are so few of them and they're so far away from one another that it becomes difficult to even remember what they were half through the movie. This could be reduced to 30-40 minutes and would have lost nothing in the logicBut the most irritating thing are the prolonged scenes showing irrelevant thing happening. Like why do I need to watch the entire landing sequence for 5 agonising minutes?? I mean I got it - the ship is landing. No need to try and bore me to death. Then the lunar travel - again - they are travelling over moon. I get it. I got after like 15 seconds. Whot are the other 4 minutes for? Same with the Jupiter travel, same even with the jogging scene - I got, the man was jogging, do I need to watch his full cardio program for 5 minutes?? Jesus..If you are someone who wanted to watch this because it's on the "All Time Greats" list and someone told you it's good - don't bother. It's more interesting to watch the grass grow
What the hell is so special about this movie? The scenes are dragged on waaaaaaay too long, the classical music interludes are too frequent and too long and its just boring!I realize Kubrick thought he was being clever and creative, but he was making a movie about a computer that went wrong. So what the hell does a computer have to do with neanderthals clubbing the others? All he had to do was show that the monolith was on the earth for millions of years. OKay... so now why did the scene have to be almost 20 minutes for that? God I hate this show!How come A Clockwork Orange is so much better? Its warped and twisted, but it does'nt drag on in the least. Everything said and done is relevant to the plot.BAH! Go watch Lord Of the Rings. Now THERES a movie! (Any of the 3) They're long but what a story!Comments appreciated!


                
I have "watched" or sat through this film more than once. Goodness knows why. As at one of the same time it is exceedingly annoying yet also slightly mesmerizing but only because of its pretentiousness.There are some good special effects, but then again a lot of the fashion is very much 1960's , when the movie was made.In essence the story is about some strange objects found on earth, "monoliths" and a space ship which is sent to investigate. These "monoliths" -so the picture nonsensically suggests- were on earth when man was still evolving from monkeys and (I later researched) the film suggests these monoliths influenced mankinds development. But that conclusion was not made at all clear in the film.On the spaceship there is an onboard computer, called "Hal" who turns "rogue" for no apparent reason. Again only after doing some research I learn that the computer went crazy because it could not take being forced to lie to the crew. And/or Hal's behavior shows how we are relying too much on machines, etc.Then after quite a lot of tedium in the film the main character a spaceman endures some type of psychedelic journey(note this movie was made in the 1960's) when those "trips" were all the rage. He finds himself in a old fashioned bedroom, going through all sorts of transformations of himself until he becomes a fetus headed for earth.It is this last scene which is the worst failing of the film. As no way can or could the normal viewer have any idea what is meant to be happening. Seems the answer is-wait for it- that the spaceman has been captured by aliens and is going through some type of metamorphosis, only known to the aliens in its purpose. Blah, blah, blah.Despite some decent effects, music, production designs, et al the film is a total mess. Whatever the maker has said trying to justify this film, the whole thing looks like it was made up as it went along. The film maker believes he knows what the film is about but instead of conveying that to the viewer he causes them to be totally confused by a failure to communicate his vision properly or at all.And the movie is pretentious in the extreme and shame on all those people who claim this is some type of "masterpiece" . The story itself is wholly ludicrous and only because of a few redeeming features can I award just above the minimum vote:2/10.
I was eagerly expecting to see this movie and I've had all my hopes in a good show. Now I'm glad that fast forward has been invented. I really got bored during the hour I've spent watching it. The problem in my vision are the scenes too long for these times. I totally agree that in 1969 the images were astounding and the sheer scale was unimaginable, but now all that is LAME. I knew there was a point in the first part but I really didn't get it. I also know that most movies have some link between its sequences.
Sorry, guys. In the year 2003 I simply hate it. 2/10


                
SPOILER The movie in short: First few minutes: black screen and irritating noises.Next twenty minutes: people in monkey suits.Next hour: spaceships and waltz or irritating noises.Next few minutes: black screen and irritating noises (like in the beginning).Next half hour: the computer gets mad on a spaceship (the only interesting part in the film).Next few minutes: strange lights and strange noises.The last minutes: WTF????? I know. I don't get it. But maybe, there is nothing to get it. Maybe it's just a waste of time.
The five-word summary: Visually spectacular self-indulgent claptrap. I understand that the book is very good, but standing by itself this movie is absolutely and utterly meaningless.  The entire "plot", such as it is, could be described in six sentences or less. The visual imagery is stunning, but towards the end gets extremely repetitive. The music is beautiful, but the sound-effects are absolutely diabolical - at points it seems as if there are less than ten separate sound effects used in the entire movie, repeated ad-nauseum.It defies belief that this movie is so well-rated on IMDB.  I can only draw two conclusions - either the book is great, and people are willing to forgive the fact that this movie cannot stand in its own right for anybody who's not read the book first, or people vote this movie up because they want to feel clever and believe they found some hidden meaning in a movie that basically has none.


                
This is an awful movie. It starts with two gangs of silly people dressed up as monkeys fighting each other. One morning they see a dark boulder in front of their boulder surrounded burrow, and they get frightened and make silly gestures and growl loudly towards that particular boulder; later, one gang discovers the weapon in form of a leg bone, and they kill the rival gang's leader with the bones.Then, one of the dressed-as-monkey guys throws his weapon up in the air, and the audience is thrown into the future, where all nations live in peace, and a bunch of silly people wear silly costumes and hats, sit on silly armchairs, presumably suck all sorts of juices as food and limp on the corridors of nausea causing rotating "space stations". Oh, and a daddy speaks with his daughter on a video phone with the moon spinning wildly out the cabin's window.All this happens over 30 minutes time span, not much heh ?After watching the scene with 2 men and 2 women chatting seated on some silly chairs, and one woman having to physically pull her panties out of her butt through her skirt as she stands up, I had to bear yet another sight of this time a limping stewardess carrying food, wearing a huge piece of underwear pushing through her trousers while she wastes about 2 minutes of film just to switch direction, left and upside-down (dont ask why would it be necessary to have a stewardess climb the ceiling in order to serve u a juice in the future) - 7 or 8 minutes of her limping in total.So i gave up watching the rest of the movie, and instead switched to watching Alien for the nth time, with lieutenant Ripley facing an Alien threat wearing decent underwear at least.Tho i wonder what happened with the cat, and what was its relevancy in the movie.
It is one of those movies which has nothing to offer and has been hailed by pseudo- intellectuals who are responsible for creating much hype. There is nothing in the movie which will leave a viewer flabbergasted and make him/her to fabricate their own interpretation. Neither is the movie entertaining. Just because it caught the vibe somehow, back in the late sixties, we needn't milk it anymore. It looks like a montage of poorly shot clips with weak direction and mediocre visual effects with feeble connection among them, whatsoever. It is high time we stop selling such stupid films because they've famous directors!


                
I was turned onto this movie because I loved Stanly Kubrick's, A Clock Work Orange. But after watching for about 30 minutes I was totally let down. First of all you have to believe that we evolved from Apes millions of years ago to enjoy the opening scene, The Dawn of Man. I personally think the whole evolution theory is false and full of holes. But then again Planet of the apes was about man evolving from Apes and that was a great movie. I do have to admit though, the scenery of the earth before the age of man in this film was breathtaking.The movie is way too slow and there isn't much going on. The music selection for the soundtrack was great. I loved some of the classical songs. Which is one of the big reasons I loved, A clock Work Orange.But if I wanted to hear classical music and see landscapes I could do that on my own. I watch movies for their great stories and thought provoking conversations between well scripted characters. This movie provided neither. I found myself finding better things to do when there was no dialog. This must be some kind of record. The shortest script ever to a full length feature.I only got half way though the movie because at 1 hour and 12 minutes there was a scene that nearly put me to sleep. For exactly 6 minutes and 40 seconds the only audio was an annoying hissing sound and a man breathing. That was it, I'd had it. I had to find something better to do with my time. So I decided to bash this flick on the internet. I gave it a 2 instead of a 1 just because it was made in 1968 and they did their best with what technology was available.


                
Over the years I've heard many people saying that this is the greatest sci-fi movie ever made. But in my opinion this movie is nowhere near as great as it's said to be and every time I state this opinion people start telling me that I'm stupid and that I just don't get it. I'm quite sure that this isn't the problem, it's just that the movie is slow in an extremely boring way. I really enjoy slow movies, I'm a big fan of Tarkovsky and he is the director with the slowest movies out there. But 2001: A Space Odyssey is no Tarkovsky, it is just an awful and boring slow movie.I have to admit that the visuals are great considering that this movie was made in 1968 and I actually think that this is the reason why it got so popular. But if you take away the awesome visual effects there's nothing left.2001: A Space Odyssey is an extremely overrated and boring movie. And by stating that this movie is bad I don't mean to say that Kubric is a bad director, I actually enjoy some of his works but doing slow movies is jusy not his thing.


                
This film is the very definition of pretentious. It insists upon itself in a manner that is not consistent with the story. The story moves along awkwardly. I assume the actual story is only about 15-20 minutes and for some ungodly reason Kubrik decided long, slow, distanced shots of spaceships flying and docking on spaceports would make good filler.Maybe in 1968 this was an astounding film that inspired awe in audiences, but anyone who can look at this film in modern times and say it is a masterpiece is speaking purely from nostalgia. In 1968 no one had ever seen spaceships in this great of detail on a big screen, so I imagine the reaction was similar to folks who saw The Wizard of OZ, when everything went color.Was the film extremely influential in shaping the SciFi genre we know today? Of course. But today, most would feel like the movie is hallow and lacking substance. We just expect more these days and this film is far too simplistic by today's standards. If you want to see Star Wars' older more boring cousin, or just like seeing long shots of spacecraft lofting through space for an hour, this is the movie for you. The film is respectable for what it did in early cinema, but it is simply dated.


                
