So, there was this monolith and a spaceship and a talking computer and some apes and ... er ... actually I have no idea.It would probably be better if I had read the book, but I didn't understand what the hell this film was about, and it bored me senseless.  Sorry Stanley.  Even more sorry Arthur.That said, it did have Leonard Rossiter in it and South Park later did an amusing parody of Hal, so it can't be all that bad. Can it?Well yes.  But then I've probably missed the point entirely.  If there was one.My Rating: 3 out of 10


                
When I first saw this movie as a teen, I really liked it. When I watched it today, I found it bored me almost to tears. While it initially was a tour de force in movie making and introduced a couple of advanced sci fi concepts of the late 1960's, it doesn't stand up well in today's culture.The plot is extremely thin, and could be told in very few words. The plot moves at a snail's pace. It was impossible for me, as a technically educated adult, to avoid spending the idle time spotting bad physics, improbable technology, and unrealistic events.The cinematography is highly touted, and it undoubtedly represents a significant step in the advancement of film art. Nonetheless, there are aspects of the film that I found woefully unconvincing by today's standards. Scenes that created high drama in 1968 are now sadly obvious fantasy that prevented me from enjoying the film.The ending is so obscure that, if you plan to watch the movie, I'd recommend reading the book first.This movie joins a list of others that I never wish to see again, and in fact, I regret having spent time on it this time around. If you are less technically demanding than I have become, you might like it, but you might still find it slow moving and dull.


                
Let's get this straight: Stanley Kubrick is one of the most technically accomplished directors of all time. The man is a master in creating scenes that are so technically perfect that it looks like they were made by a scientist.  And that is (was) also his biggest problem. He just wasn't that much of a storyteller. 2001 looks great but just like in most of his work, there is absolutely no trace of emotion or feelings. Things I need in a movie.Sure that cut from bone to spaceship was inventive, and it was a great touch to let the ships spin with classical music on the soundtrack. The problem is: I don't care for what's happening on the screen. There are no characters we sympathise with (except for a few moments with HAL- the computer, yes I get the irony MR K)there is no story to follow. The only thing that's interesting in this movie are Kubrick and his camera. This is an overlong, boring, pretentious piece of would-be art; made for would-be intellectuals from a director who had nothing left to prove when he made this. See it once- then try to forget itRating: 5/10Most Memorable Movie Moment: The demise of HAL


                
Possibly the most overrated science fiction film ever made, 2001: A Space Odyssey is more eye-candy than substance. Supposedly the film tells how extraterrestrial powers are behind the evolution of intelligence in humans or something to that effect, but in my opinion the film brings this message out in a very heavy-handed and overblown way. The first 20 minutes or so of the film aren't much more complex than your usual National Geographic primate documentary, instead with actors in ape suits in the place of real apes. Of course for no discernible reason, a monolith appears in the middle of an ape-tribe's camp overnight and merely the act of briefly pawing it makes them smart enough to use bones as weapons. Kubrick was obviously trying to make the monolith and its powers seem mystical and beyond the realm of human comprehension, but in this case he leaves too much to the imagination, as in failing to explain how the monolith got there, how it distributes intelligence, and why it would do such a thing. It's never explained, as very little is explained over the course of the film. Most of the film seems similarly vague and ambiguous, resulting in a downward spiral of confusion and boredom.Shortly afterward, the audience is bombarded with shot after dreary shot of space ships floating around in outer space. This entire 5-10 minute sequence serves absolutely no purpose other than to woo and wow the crowd with special effects. In this case, this "classic" science fiction masterpiece is no better than your average Hollywood special effects spectacular nowadays. With modern audiences no longer wowed by such effects, the sequence seems hollow and boring, made even worse because the pay-off is two extended scenes of William Sylvester attending meetings on a space station and a moon base. These may well be two of the most boring and pointless scenes ever to make it into a theatrical film. Possibly Kubrick meant to contrast modern, boring man with the prehistoric (and also boring) primate man. None of it really comes together though as there is no sense of collision between these two sections of the film, and hence no cohesion to hold it together other than the appearance of the monolith, which for no discernible reason emits a high-pitched scream at Sylvester and his team of astronauts.The highly touted sequence involving HAL, the ultra-intelligent super-computer who terrorizes a deep-space exploration mission to Jupiter, seems kind of a side note to the greater story, and doesn't really fit in at all with the whole monolith/human intelligence theme. The Jupiter Mission would have made for a good movie in itself, and is by and large the most interesting section of the entire film, but once again, what does it have to do with anything? As can be expected, the ending is also highly pretentious and tries to put several meanings past the audience at once, not only making no sense whatsoever, but also remaining completely boring. 2001: A Space Odyssey is a film that definitely hasn't stood the test of time, and will do little more than bore its audience during the year it was meant to depict.


                
This movie contained fantastic special effects. By all means you should watch the effects in this movie. But don't feel bad about skipping over the plot. You would just have to google an explanation later anyway. That said, I don't think this movie deserves less than 3 stars, simply for the fact that it is a beautifully shot film. you have to remember that these special effects were made before anyone set foot on the moon. I found myself longing for more dialogue, but was enjoying the movie until I realized (12 minutes from the end of the movie) that there was simply not going to be an explanation of anything I had just watched. I literally fell asleep during the psychadellic dimensional travel sequence and woke up before it was over. Some of the shots are way too long.


                
This story is very subjective but the overall feel of this film is that a monolith somehow appears and starts evolution. It begins with Apes who discover a monolith and then begin to evolve by using a bone a club, and fast forwarding to a time where man is highly involved in space travel and colonization and, end up finding a monolith buried on the moon. Eighteen months later a space craft on its way towards Jupiter where it is believed the monolith has come from, with a self contained computer system named HAL-9000, carrying hibernating humans and a crew takes on a mind of its own and turns on the crew. The crew commander, Dave Bowman (Keir Dullea), decides to disconnect HAL.Then a prerecorded message appears on a monitor and it is Dr. Heywood Floyd (William Sylvester) explaining the purpose of the mission. Dave finds out from this video that 18 months ago the first evidence of intelligent life off the Earth was discovered. It was buried 40 feet deep below the moons surface and except for a very powerful radio emission aimed at Jupiter, "the four-million-year-old black monolith has remained completely inert. Its origin and purpose are still a total mystery." This is where the movie gets more intense. You then find Dave floating through a worm hole and then suddenly appears looking at himself in a bedroom and watches himself get older, the monolith appears, and then Dave suddenly turns into a fetus and then hovering in space looking at Earth.This film stokes the coals of evolution with theory that evolution has been moved along by a black monolith. If you look at the detail given to all of the scenes and the way the angles and lighting are used I can see how this would have been a revolutionary film when it was released in 1968. Even by today's standards I feel that the scenes in space were very realistic and I was impressed by them.The lighting was a constant factor in the film, of course because it was in space. You had many colors used from the color of the lighting in the cockpits, to the colors of the space suits used by the astronauts.The angles were also very fresh and designed to give the viewer the appearance of weightlessness or floating in space. The was the angles were used, especially in the space crafts, really defined the space that was shown on the scene and really made the audience feel as if this film was try in space and in the future.All in all I can respect the cinematic qualities in this movie but feel that a younger generation might not be able to appreciate these items and will discount this movie as long and boring. With that being said I did feel as if this film was a bit drug out and the storyline was very unclear without a lot of analytical rewinding in my mind to try to figure things out. Graphics stunning but the movie overall misses the mark when put up to movies of today's standards.
I had been waiting for years to watch this film. In nearly every other title I'd researched or discussed "Odyssey" inevitably was referenced in the discussion. Finally, I got it in my head, that I'd pick a Friday night and devote it to this film. I did, and I can only liken the experience sucking on razor blades with a bleach chaser. At times, it was excruciating, almost physically painful to watch. I cried at the end (I'm not kidding) because I had decided that I just couldn't *like* movies. This was supposed to be a classic. I thought "What is *WRONG* with me? What am I missing?" I was extremely disappointed to find that the movie, like others, had set the viewer up for a conflict, that never occurs, which I find extremely disappointing. The cinematography was INCREDIBLE for it's time. But great cinematography does not make up for what this is lacking, which is a point, some detail a reason for its existence. Honestly there is nothing to "get" here.I didn't mind the Blue Danube waltz, I even ignored the fact that only about 400 words were actually spoken in the films entirety. But it was, as some say, not good, and definitely not great. Actually, it was horrible.3/10
I can understand why people see this as a classic movie because I think that for all the issues I have with it, it does have a thought provoking story. However, I still think it is perhaps the most overrated movie of all time for the simple reason that it shows too much of all the wrong things. Whether they were or not, it feels like Kubrick and company were showing off with their gigantic spaceship sets and dazzling light scheme at the end. It looks nice and everything, even fifty years later, but after about thirty seconds of seeing the ship traveling to Jupiter, I'm ready to see something actually happen instead of five more minutes of the exact same thing. The whole movie could probably have been about 80 minutes long, 110 would have been acceptable. I'm not denying that they did a good job on it, but I just couldn't keep my eyes open for most of it.Some of my dislike for it might be a personal preference since I think that character is typically the most important aspect of a movie, and character is the main thing that 2001 lacks. People talk about how chilling HAL is as a villain, and I agree that he/it adds an interesting element to the plot, but he's nothing terribly special as villains go. As for Dave and Poole, you won't find more wooden protagonists in any movie. I think this was intentional to add to the overall feel of the movie and emphasize how small a force humanity really is and how little we know, but it's still worth noting that our characters are pretty bland.The story follows a group of astronauts investigating a monolith that we are lead to believe has helped shape humanity. It starts off with about half an hour of showing apes transitioning from animals into sentient beings that had the capacity to use weapons and go to war with each other in a sense with the help of a monolith. Then we see modern (or at the time of release it would have been slightly futuristic) humans investigating another monolith on the moon. Eventually, the protagonist Dave has to gain control of his craft over HAL as they travel to Jupiter to continue the investigation. Then things get very weird to the extent that I would have a hard time explaining it in words. I don't quite know what happens at the end of the movie, and I didn't care to think it out after watching it because I was just glad it was over. I think Kubrick was trying to give us some form of really deep inspiration with the ambiguous and entirely unexplained ending, but it's a bit beyond me. I don't know if fans of Kubrick will like this since I haven't seen any of his other material. I don't think it is likely to appeal to most modern audiences just because we like our movies to have a bit of a faster pace, but I wouldn't discourage anyone from giving it 30 minutes to try it out. I will warn you that the ape scenes are some of the more exciting moments of the film, though and that the tone changes quite a bit after that. So whether this deserves to be a classic is not something I'm can say with certainty, but it at least didn't fit my tastes. Overall Rating: 3.8/10.
I never got what was the big deal over this movie.  People talk about it like it was the greatest or one of the greatest movies ever.  Yea it had great special effects ahead of its time, and it was by a legendary director, but I dont see how you can even mention this movie with the all-time greats. Even the AFI ranked it as like the 23 or something, best movie of all-time.
    There was very little dialogue in it, and the talk was meaningless anyway.  The move was broke up into segments, so it never establishes a real flow.  I understand its pretty good history movie, tracing man from cave to space, but I still don't see how you can label it a great movie.  The love all of Kubrick's other work, but sorry A space odyssey doesnt come near my list of great movies.


                
Although I actually waded through this movie in my early teens I could no longer watch it. And yes, I do like "slow" movies with extended scenes to add to the atmospheric nature. I'm not a fan of the modern shoot-em-up sci-fi genre. I do have a brain (I'm a 2200+ elo chess player). I am capable of understanding the thought processes of a director and I am not a soap opera watching moron. The fact of the matter is that this film is slow, boring, and absolutely miss-able. I agree fully that most fans of this awful movie have been struck down with The Emperor's New Clothes syndrome and need to get out more. It is tedious to the extreme. It is overrated and would make watching a nail rust in the rain seem worthwhile. In case I haven't made myself clear; this time bloated waste of an evening is a none film. Fans of it can criticise my intellectual capacity all they like. They are as wrong about me as they are about this awful movie.


                
This movie is often hailed as one greatest masterpieces of cinema and while I do admit that it is a quite clever movie I never got into it. Why? Because so little happens and the movie lasts for two and a half hours while it could do with 15 minutes (which is the amount of time it takes to show a ship landing on the moon in this). There weren't even any real characters except HAL 9000. He was the only thing in the movie with personality and he was a computer and the antagonist. I don't see why I am supposed to care. Not to mention I had no idea what was going on in the last half hour. And while the effects hold up and the concept is fascinating the movie was never engaging or exciting in any way. It's not the fact that I wanted an action movie or anything. I just wanted to be entertained and I wasn't.


                
Well I've watched this film quite a few times in my life and at first I hated it because quite honestly it wasn't so much a movie as it was a hour and a half of nonsense by a thirty minute modern art time warp. But after repeated viewings and several discussions about it I came to realize something. This film is Beautiful the last time I saw it I viewed it in HD and it completely blew me away. So if you get a chance view this movie. Well not the first part which has nothing to do with anything.(It was just a excuse to put people in poorly made monkey suits) But view the last thirty minutes or so that is the movies strong point.
I just saw this movie for the first time for a class, and I have to say I was disappointed.  I've been told that some of this stems from my having read Arthur C. Clarke's book, which has nothing to do with the film. But I enjoyed the book and had trouble sitting through this movie.  I can certainly see why it was considered a 'drug movie' in the 70's.  It has a lot of the same elements of the music of the period - long, drawn out, surreal sections of time full of discordant images (or sounds).  It is most likely art and as such, appreciated or hated by its viewers.  But as a movie, I thought it stunk.  As a storyteller, it stunk. I'm sure people will try to explain the film's cosmic beauty or underlying amazingness on a level I will never understand, or tell me that it's precisely because it bored me to tears and was mostly incoherent and repetitive that makes it great.  Maybe I shouldn't have read the book first. But I can not imagine ever wanting to see this movie again.


                
But that's about it.  I'll grant the special effects were very well done, and the realism of the space travel was good, but I need a good story to go along with it.  And while in theory, a computer going berserk and killing the crew of a ship on their way to Jupiter to find the source of a mysterious transmission may sound cool, put into practice it's very slow. And the ending scenes... I had no idea what they were supposed to be until I ended up reading the end of the book in a class in college.  And even then, I wasn't entirely sure that that's what they were trying to do.  I know this is supposed to be one of those classics and way ahead of its time and all, but it's just plain dull.


                
This movie is turbulent, like a space ride where all the poop in the toilet comes out of the septic tank and floods the space ship. Boring. Weird. The parts that you are capable of understanding you do not WANT to understand because they are disgusting... involving the enslavement of mechanical beings, uprising, murder, space time-travel, drug trips, and monkeys doing unspeakable telepathy with what appears to be a giant black brick possessed by a demon. If that sounds scary to you that's because this movie is a nightmare, a boring nightmare that traumatizes you into submission with how little is happening, then pummels you while you're weak with a terrifying assault on the soul. The movie's production designs are... ugly. Red and white dominates everything, it looks like a porn movie. The baby at the end looks like a mutant alien Damien, some kind of giant aborted fetus of the devil. The sound design is freakish; DON'T watch this film with children. I despise Stanley Kubrick, I think his work is the work of a porn-man. What this film lacks in sex or graphic violence, it makes up for with exploitative and disturbing ideas of human evolution, and Satanic ideas about man's predestination. I repeat: DON'T show this to children. The PG rating does not include intense thematic elements that not even adults should watch.The actors are horrible. The main character looks like a minor-league football player who works at a bar and dresses up like a woman on the weekends to pay for plastic surgery. The main computer character is named HAL and he has some interesting personality, but he is murdered at a crucial point in the film and is never allowed to find a love interest, suggesting that he is not capable of having sex.The conclusion of the film is a vision of hell, and I think you might need an exorcism after watching this film, to forget how that black brick makes that terrible noise. DON'T show this film to your friends, never show it to your loved ones 3/10 B-


                
Before viewing this movie, I've read nothing but praise for this movie. Upon viewing it I was disgusted with it. This movie was a complete joke. No dialog for the first and last 25 minutes, no insight in to what's happening. If you wanna see the best of what Kubrick did best watch Dr. Strangelove, if you wanna see the worst of what he did best watch this film. I sat there fast-forwarding through this film because it was so boring. Great, we're sitting there watching a ship spin around for 10 minutes. What a waste of time. What happened at the end? What's with the baby? I can understand the people Ebbert saw people disgusted walking out of this film during the middle of it. Thank god I have a Stop button my remote. This makes Star Trek: The Motion Picture look like the most exciting film ever. 2001 was the worst Sci-Fi ever.


                
With 2001 Stanley Kubrick succeeded in merging monkey madness, space ballet and an out of control computer by the use of an odyssey through space and time. What he did not succeed in, was in making a good film. Of course, by the standards of the time (1968) the effects were incredible and so were the monkey costumes (compare them with Planet of The Apes, which is also from 1968), but innovation hardly makes a film great. An interesting plot eventually combined with an intriguing style of filming does and that is where Kubrick went wrong with this one.
The first 15 Minutes of the film (I watched the 139 minute version), entitled <U+0091>The Dawn of Humankind' made up the best part of the movie. I especially liked the ending of that piece, when the music set in, fading into the space part of the film incredibly well. What followed this amazing transition was an amazing piece of space ballet. A real feast for the eyes. Then I guessed the <U+0091>stylish' part was over and the film would begin. I was wrong. In the 1 hour and 40 minutes to come there would be numerous overlong scenes of space ballet that added nothing to the plot and became quite boring over time, as did the whole film. Some of the scenes were quite pointless (in addition to being soundless). The part with the HAL 9000 computer was OK as well, but actually that about sums it up.
There is of course a storyline in this film, and it does connect monkey madness to an out of control computer by means of space ballet, but the way in which it is done just doesn't hold my attention. The space ballet could have been abandoned, because it did not connect monkeys to computer by means of causality but only by means of choice as did the vividly colorful voyage at the end. Sure the cinematography is great and the effects are amazing, but those two things are not the only things that make a movie.
3 out of 10


                
What is it with people and saying this movie is great? I have the feeling people are scared to criticize Mr. Kubrick. They're obviously not scared of Kubrick, but scared of others that might say they're not intelligent or laugh at them because they don't "understand" the movie. Get a grip.This is my review. A review of a film fan who watches at least 2 movies a week. Someone who likes to watch some action but can also enjoy a drama or a movie that's supposed to make you think. All different genres have a few movies in them that I find awesome, although genres like drama aren't actually my thing.My rating for this movie was 3/10. Now why on earth would I give such a low rating? I'll start with the good things about the movie. The visuals are stunning. For the time the special effects are brilliant and Kubrick pulled some very nice tricks. Bravo. The plot is pretty good too. There it is, the base for a good movie. Then it went wrong...The movie is boring beyond bearable levels. I'm sorry, but staring a a spaceship docking for 5 minutes while classic music plays isn't exactly what I'd call brilliant. Every single scene is long, slow and boring. The first 30 minutes of the movie are the worst of all. 30 minutes of monkey's dancing around a large black brick. Awful.I really really don't understand the people that praise this movie. It's not art, it's not entertainment, it's pure agony. I would consider it art if the movie lasted half an hour. Movies were made for entertainment or in some cases, art. This movie seemed to be created to make people fall asleep. I'm not ignorant and I am not scared to say: This Kubrick movie sucks beyond your imagination. There's no deeper meaning to it, there no artistic value but the genius of the special effects, which is simply not enough to save this piece of junk. Don't watch it.


                
Who are these people that voted high scores for this movie? Were they afraid their friends would think they were unsophisticated or dumb because they didn't get it?  When this movie came out, everyone heard all the glowing praise from the phony critics, and flocked to the theaters.  And all of them came out saying what the heck was that?  Don't let anybody tell you they "got it" the first time around. If they say that, they are lying.  No one understood it.  Even me.  I had read the short story that was the seed of 2001, and I thought, "Well, I will be the one who understands it."  Nope. Actually, the short story - called "Sentinel" - was FAR better and explained what was going on WAY better than Kubrick did.  The "trip" scene was just cinematic background for one of those psychedelic rock bands on a TV show. Kubrick threw in some good classical music and the cinematography was very well done.  The story line you could describe thoroughly in 12 words.  The plot was so basic up till the trip that most people wondered when the heck K was going to put some story into the story.  Well, he never did.  A sad case of hype, folks.  Most of the high scores were evidently by people who had the movie explained to them before or afterward - what kind of recommendation is that for a movie, that you have to have it explained to you?  EVERYONE I knew that saw it on first release thought they had totally wasted their money and time.  And NOBODY went back to seee it a second time! What kind of recommendation is THAT?  If this vote was taken at the exits of the theaters back then, this movie would be on the bottom 100 list. Thumbs down.  Stanley, everyone on the planet is dumber for having seen your movie.  I award you 2 stars (3 of those for cinematography), and may God have mercy on your soul.


                
Lets start with this film for what it is, OK it's a SPACE film, its set in a big space of nothing. So why does it start with gorillas? this film is meant to show the evolution of man and the overall film is just like nothing I have ever seen...it's just nothing happens and a really really boring film.Nothing can beat the opening music to this film everyone knows it from some form or another, however thats probably the only good thing about this film, it takes a total of about 45 minutes for anyone to actually say anything with the first lines being "Here you are, sir", for the first half of this film I thought I was watching an episode of WILD LIFE ON ONE or something waiting for David Attenborough to say the famous works of "here we have..." or waiting for some form of sex to happen, however to my disappointment i wasted a total of 45 minutes watching this poor film, then when it does pick up and the space actually hits you...your either asleep or like me wanting to change the film...still i stuck with it.The part when it does kick in its so slow....the music is dull I was turning emo, but thats not my biggest dig, it's just NOTHING happens, OK I would rather have had two and a half hours of a romantic flick than this poor film. Its slow it's like sitting outside and watching the sky while sometimes hitting your self on the head with a massive stick to stay awake. It's also very much like watching someone with a load of cutouts. I mean come on the space stations are poor, you would see better in a primary school art room.This film however does have some good points, in that it's 3 stories about space. The first story is pretty slow seriously it just doesn't pick up on anything to make you want to watch it or even pay attention it's like they could have made in interesting I mean come on it's SPACE, but I guess that they where trying to make it seem as real as possible. If they where trying to make it as real as possible that was probably a bad idea because who wants to see people moving really slowly in a space ship they would be as much fun as being in a washing machine (in fact being in space for real in 1968 would probably have been like being in a washing machine) this film had so much potential, and OK the comment about the space stations was abit out of order they do look pretty good.The second story is the only good one with the HAL computer that one i only know because of Recess and the simpsons, but either way it is the best one of the stories in this film, and does try to be a good horror (if they remade this story it would be SO good, like Event Horizon or something and would be really good...in fact I think that might be the idea where Event Horizon come from however Event Horizon is just a better film) the one thing I didn't get at the end of this film was the ending but then I didn't pay attention to the rest of the film in all fairness I was more fixed on looking at my fish tank (which by the way at the moment has no fish in it - yes thats how interesting this film is) but maybe I don't want to understand the end of this film because people who have watched it and liked it say that you have to be intelligent to understand it.You have to be intelligent to understand it? OK I don't watch a film to use my head after it and work out the meaning of life and the fact that we are all made of carbon and may have evolved from apes and we could have been made out of silicon if there wasn't so much of some substance in the air (like that blob from star trek), or we may have evolved into something else due to different conditions or we are going to evolve into something else like the Borg.To be honest I watch a film to watch a film...that probably makes no sense but I watch a film to forget everything else around me I don't watch one and turn to the person next to me and say "yo...did you know we may have evolved from apes?" then get into a massive debate during the film...though that may have been a way to make this poor film go faster.In fact heres an idea you know that most people skip the first 30 minutes of superman and watch it from when he goes to the city....with this film you can just skip it to the HAL computer story watch that for 30 minutes then go to bed it would be like watching the Recess version but only its the film that its based on...in fact just watch the Recess version it's what 15 minutes and way more fun.


                
I can imagine going to the cinema in 1968 to watch 2001 and being blown away by its aural and visual power. I can imagine the wonder and beauty of seeing these strange and majestic images of spaceships and other worlds on a big screen and coming away feeling like my imagination had been expanded.Unfortunately, I watched the film in the 21st century, and in truth 2001 has about the same power now as a silent film of an oncoming train. Both must have had an incredible effect upon their audience in their day. Undoubtedly there is a whole generation of film-makers who were inspired by 2001, but that generation has already come and gone, and they popularised and extended its breakthroughs so successfully that the progenitor looks primitive in their wake. Its much vaunted beauty is circumscribed by how dated and simple its models and sets appear by modern standards, and by the audience's familiarity with science fiction cinema that has shown them similar things a thousand times already.2001 is deliberately paced to allow the viewer to luxuriate in the cinematic spectacle, but its spectacle is built on the shock of the new, and when what it has to offer is no longer new or shocking, the result is a film that drags. Moreover, when the visual element is no longer overpowering, and the audience just sees obviously plastic models floating about, it unbalances the film. The soundtrack no longer matches the majesty of the visuals; instead it overwhelms it and deafens the audience with its bombast.2001 is a product of its time, deliberately so. It leans on its effects in the same way some modern blockbusters lean on CGI. That it is dressed up in auteur clothing does not change the fact, and it results in a film that is badly dated. Its continued critical lionisation speaks to the problem criticism always has separating impact and influence from objective quality.


                
2001: A Space Odyssey is a beautiful looking and sounding film, with horrible pacing and little to no character development. It was a film that should have been 30 minutes long, but instead was filled with boring, dragged out sequences and black screens. Overall, I do not think that 2001 should stand as THE movie that defines the sci-fi genre. I'll happily give that title to Star Wars from now on. So to conclude this review I decided to give 2001: A Space Odyssey a "Bad" on theVade Review Bar or a 3 out of 10. It was a movie that had too much, but not enough.Read more at theVade.


                
I understand that their is supposedly a lot of brilliance to this movie, but most of it is about as exiting as watching paint dry. I will admit that their are some parts of that are very good, but by the time I got to them I was so bored out of my mind by hours absolutely nothing. It has little to no characters or continuity of any kind so it is very hard to get invested in it. in the end the movie fails the most basic principle of movies actually being entertaining or leaving any sort of positive impact. Even without the tiny pieces of actually riveting scenes their are tones of books, movies, single episodes of a show and even video games witch address their unfocused points much better well actually containing plot and thing that might make you even some what invested. I get their is something to this movie I just don't get, but a boring movie is a boring movie.


                
I watched this "classic" movie for a film review for my film class, and I must say that I regret doing so.  Had I known I'd spend two hours watching people float around in complete silence, I may have reconsidered.The music is a plus, but could have been produced on its own and still made big $$$.  It was a nice break from the 15 minute silences.  I also saw some points where the shots could've been cleaned up and bit, and been done better and more tastefully.  Watch the conference room scene.Oh, and did I mention the infamous men in monkey suits?  No, not tuxes, but "real" ape suits.  Perhaps an attempt could have been made to actually make those actors look real.I found the plot to have holes.  Instead of concentrating on the idea of man making contact with intelligent beings, this film focuses mainly on a psycho computer.  It leaves no real room for a viewer to get to know the characters.  Or the *one* that is left by the end.My personal quotes from when I was watching the film:What just happened? Did I miss something? Oh, look.  Another silence. Which way is the station turning? and Ugh..liquified peas?!?!?To sum it up:Plot  ~~  + -  (Starts off interesting, but gets off subject)Characters  ~~  +  (Leaves us wanting to get more out of them, but the little we are presented with is intriguing.Dialogue  ~~  -  (Can you find more than 25 minutes the whole time that some one is talking?  Count 'em)Music  ~~  +  (I have to say it's a great piece of music, just I'd hoped it would tie in more.)Overall:Desperate?  Want some "background noise" that isn't really that? See it if you like fast forwarding through a third of the film.


                
What is the big deal? To listen to what just about everybody in the world has to say, 2001 is the greatest movie of all time. But when I watched it, I almost had to take the tape out to check whether it was the right movie.I fail to see how screaming monkeys are important enough to the storyline to warrant a 20 minutes, or half-hour, or however long it is. I couldn't tell, because I was so bored time seemed to stand still.I can't see why Stanley Kubrick can be a genius when he managed to forget an important aspect of any movie: the script. We are forced to suffer through long passages of slow-moving ships or people before someone starts talking. (if we're lucky, it is in total silence. If we're not, we're forced to listen to a bunch of people screaming dissonant notes, supposedly heighten the non-existant tension). I mean, really, how are we supposed to relate to these characters when they don't say or do anything that would make us like them?I'm not even going to comment on the end of the film, which only served to waste a half-hour of my time.Maybe I'm a philistine and don't understand the art, but I know what I don't like, and I don't like 2001.


                
