I felt the need to review this movie after reading some reviews from other users, simply because I agreed with all. Those who love it, those who hate it, those who enjoyed it, all of them. And the reason is simple: everything they say makes sense to me. I watched the movie for the first time about 10 years ago, and watched it again last night. It still doesn't make perfect sense to me. I mean, the story is absent, the characters don't really get through you, and the ending...who gets that ending?? #SPOILERS# BELOWThe end makes no sense to me... The psychedelic travel, the space child... Maybe I'm just plain stupid, but spending two and a half hours looking at space, slooowww space, and in the end just watch a man in bed, then a baby in a bubble, no explanations, no nothing... Truly, if someone got it and has the hability to explain it to me without calling it "art" or whatever, simply explain it to me, I would be very thankful, not kidding. Maybe that way I would be able to enjoy it next time I watch it, maybe ten years from now.That been said, why would I rate it a 7...? I believe when I watch a movie for the first time, I should put myself at the time, the era, the social paradigm, the movie was released. And this movie is cleary ahead of its time. Note, that I am talking about the visual effects, and the general idea of the movie. This movie clearly marked an era, a filmmaker, visual effects and the idea of what space was like. For that it deserves a high rating, maybe the highest. Not to mention the hype the movie STILL causes. We still can't reach an understanding...is it a masterpiece, is it overrated. The only way to really be able to discuss it and form your own opinion is to watch it, so the movie reaches its goal: to be watched and debated. A blockbuster rarely does this, we just watch them to get some good action scenes, visual effects, whatever, but when a filmmaker creates a movie that creates hype, controversy and most importantly, a vision of the future, he is creating a cult movie...a classic. To sum up, as I said in the beginning, when i read people calling it a classic, a masterpiece, I have to agree, but I also agree with those who say its overrated and boring...For me both sentences are true.
One of Stanley Kubrick's greatest works - which is saying something - and still considered by a great many people to be the greatest science fiction film ever made.It is a film that takes us from the very beginning to the very end. Starting from space, slowly and majestically approaching prehistoric Earth, settling us in to witness the birth of mankind. And it keeps going on from there. All the way to the end.The one thing that impressed me the most about this film is its technical supremacy. This is a film that was made in the 60s. Computer effects had barely been imagined back then and they wouldn't be widely used in decades. And yet this film has some of the most amazing visual shots I've ever seen. I frankly have no idea how they even made some of them. Or, at least, made them without going to ridiculous lengths in set-building. And it looks great, perfect even.As for the story, it's a Kubrick alright. None of the man's films are what you would call fast-paced, but this right here just might take the cake. I enjoyed the beginning a lot. The slow pace allowed for the majesty of the imagery to shine and it reflected the slow build-up of mankind rather beautifully. But the space scenes did not pick up the pace, and I do think that they should have. Just a little bit. I get that the style is what it is and when the mood leans more towards horror, it does work, but I still think that the same story could have been told in a briefer fashion. Easily.Still, I cannot fault the film too much. It is quite unique in its mood, approach, story and scope. An iron hard classic for a reason and definitely an inspiration for all the science fiction that would follow. Owe it to yourself to give it a chance.


                
2001: A Space Odyssey is objectively a visual masterpiece; but for those who appreciate a subtler, slower story line, it is a narrative success as well. Does the movie revel in showing off its mind boggling special effects? Does it, at times, seem more like an impressive art gallery than a film? Yes and yes, but even 50 years later, the special effects are amazing enough to warrant the rather pretentious display. It is clear that Kubrick's vision influenced nearly all sci-fi movies set in space up through the 21st century, and the only things that clue into its date of creation are the costumes and lack of outrageous CGI monsters. The calm, long shots of space and the spaceship set to classical music allow the audience to take in every bit of the mystical, beautiful, and slightly intimidating aspects to space and technology that Kubrick wished to convey.
One of the main complaints about 2001: A Space Odyssey is its length and slow plot. There is no denying that the movie moves at a slow pace or that it is long (about two and a half hours), but whether this works in the service of the movie or not is as matter of preference. Admittedly, the style of storytelling is slightly difficult to adjust to when an one is used to the current space movie genre, which often entails exciting action and an ensemble of characters whose personal relationships form a core of the movie. In 2001, the suspense is much quieter, but the drawn out length keeps it simmering constantly under the surface. Instead of an ensemble cast with charismatic characters, the core of the movie contains one human and one supercomputer, HAL. Additionally, the cerebral nature of the third act is radically different from those of Star Wars, Star Trek, and other epic space movies. However, the story line is still thought-provoking, exciting, and fairly simple to follow once its unique form is accepted and celebrated.


                
as a fan of kubrick films of great kubrick films such as barry lyndon and clockwork orange, i put space odyessey in my video player with great anticipation....but what i saw was pretentious cinematography. there was barely a decent storyline (apart from Hal which i concede was very good).
There were glimpses of a great film, like Hal which ive already mentioned but even as a landmark film which i also agree it to be (in terms of special effects), Kubrick relys far too much on his skills with the camera and showing what he thinks is clever and not enough on the story. i mean the discovery of immortality was a joke i have 2 say. i just sat there and i said to myself "is that it?"


                
First off, I realize this might have been HUGE way back in 1968, but why say "2001"? Why not make it timeless or something? Come on, H.G. Wells was smart enough to set Time Machine further into the future than 24 years later. Other than that, it was way too slow. I ended up fast forwarding it, going two times the usual speed to read the subtitles, though there turned out to be not very much talking. The astronauts even walked in baby steps. Here is my summary of this movie:*MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS*We watch half an hour of gorrilas screeching. Then they find a black slab, which leads to more screeching and they take twenty minutes to realize that they can kill. Then we go to space, where we watch spaceships move around very  very slowly, so that we know that this is exactly what the future will be like -- whoops, not quite. The people find another black thing on the moon. Then randomly, we see some people on a spaceship that is en route to Jupiter. Alright, whatever. HAL, which consists of red camera lenses planted around the ship, kills everyone except for one person. This one person unplugs HAL, which makes a TV tell him that the black rock on the moon is sending radio beams to Jupiter. The directors put in an intermission to make things go slower.Then we see a black rock float in the solar system, then we see about half an hour of the survivor go through a tunnel of light, and we discover Jupiter is just South Utah, tinted different colors. The survivor lands in a white room. He's older, maybe now he's fifty? Then he sees a seventy year old eating at the table. The seventy year old looks back, the fifty year old is gone. Then he looks at the bed, and there is a horribly old old man there, who looks at the table. He sees a black rock, which turns him into a fetus. The fetus looks at Earth.All of this is about two hours.*END SPOILERS*
As a piece of art, 2001: A Space Odyssey could well be considered a masterpiece. The film was certainly ahead of its time in regards to special effects, and I must admit, I was initially impressed by the space sequences and the various other pre-CGI special effects. The main theme (Also Sprach Zarathustra) is amazing too.But for me to truly enjoy a film, I need to feel connected to it somehow, whether it be intellectually or emotionally. 2001 almost lost me in the first 3 minutes. Literally. The film opens with 171 seconds of pure darkness, a blank screen, with a mere droning sound in the background. I thought my DVD player had broken. What a way to start a movie; panicking about the fact your DVD player may be broken.Then the film starts, and the opening titles were great. Also Sprach Zarathustra sounded amazing, and I was excited. Cut to 5 minutes later, and I was watching monkeys yelling at each other. Coincidentally, I found myself yelling too. At my screen.The pain doesn't stop there, as I was then treated to an additional 2 whole hours of repetitive, tedious outer-space docking sequences, bland dialogue, stiff acting, an almost complete lack of emotion, essentially no cohesive narrative, and a vague and ultimately unsatisfying conclusion.Throughout the entire film, I was just waiting for a moment of engagement. I was waiting for that moment where I became engrossed in a rich, unique science fiction experience; the moment where my eyes opened and I realized the sheer genius of Kubrick's "master-piece."That moment never came, and I was so over-whelmed in disappointment at the film's conclusion that I broke down in tears. I'm not even kidding. I wept, sobbed, and cried. I'd wasted 130 minutes of my life watching a tedious, pretentious science fiction film. I'd gained nothing from the experience, yet I had tried so hard to get into it and enjoy it. Above all, I felt ashamed. You know, maybe I don't "understand" 2001. Maybe those lovers of film who hold their noses up the highest will look down on me and sneer, and tell me that I'm shallow, that I'm not willing to watch something without gratuitous sex and violence. They'd tell me that I shouldn't go sticking my down-turned nose into such a "high-class" film like 2001, and that I should stick to the Transformers movies. To which I'd reply, "but Stanley Kubrick was my favorite director prior to watching this film."Which is true, by the way. A Clockwork Orange may be one of my all time favorites. Both The Shining and Dr Strangelove are near masterpieces in my eyes, and I also thought Full Metal Jacket was great too.But alas, 2001: A Space Odyssey just didn't do it for me. Perhaps it was the fact that I found it too slow, too abstract, or perhaps it wasn't quite what I was expecting. Still, the film is not entirely worthless in my eyes. It did contain a number of special effects that I found to look impressive even in this CGI-infested day and age, and the film does also feature some interesting music and imagery. Other than that, though, I couldn't find it in me to like any other aspect of this film.It was the first film I've ever viewed that truly made me break down into tears, although not in the way that I perhaps had hoped.1.5 STARS OUT OF 5.


                
So, I finally saw this weird film and I still don't know what to think of it. I'm not sure if I liked it or not. One of the weirdest movies I've ever seen. It's brilliant visually, but......nothing happens. The film has no substance, and it tries to fool you into thinking it does. The classic "so weird it must mean something" fits this one like a tie. It's hard to explain, but something about this movie I didn't like. There is VERY little story, and the little that is there is not interesting. It's an art flick, and a big leap in sci-fi films at the time, but for entertainment purposes I would have to pass on this one.I understand that it was not meant to be understood, but why make a film like that? Maybe I'll 'get it' ten years down the road.Very difficult to rate this film, because as an art film it warrants a 10/10, but as a film for entertainment value I see myself giving it a 4/10.


                
I have tried desperately to like this movie. I have been told over and over again by my parents how ground-breaking the special effects were and how mind-blowing the whole movie was. I can see how the effects were amazing, given that they don't look cheap and shoddy even today. Still, a movie ,where the first words don't happen until roughly 25 minutes into the movie, is making a huge mistake. The plot is incomprehensible. I turned around and asked my dad what had happened when the movie finished. There is only one thing that comes even close to saving this movie and that is the perfect marriage that is "Also Sprach Zarathustra" and the discovery of bone as a weapon. Still, nothing can save the movie not the music and not HAL.


                
"2001: A Space Odyssey" is set in the year 2001 and the main character is HAL. HAL is a computer. That's right, a computer who talks and thinks entirely on its own. This was made in 1968 and to think by 2001 it would be conceivable that computers would talk is a joke. If this was in 3064 a talking computer that had emotions and made its own decisions would be considered just as moronic as this. There is nothing in this film that provokes any kind of emotion. It provokes two reactions and one is called sleep. The film starts with nothing but a pitch black screen for well over two minutes. Then, the first shot we see that has some kind of lighting is "The Dawn of Man" sequence. So, if it's in chronological order, the blackness prior to this, is the birth of the world? During "The Dawn of Man" sequence, out of no where, a huge rectangular block comes from<U+0085> out of the ground, from the sky, we'll never know where it comes from, but for one reason or another it's there. The monkeys go apesh!t once they find this huge rectangular block that only man could have made, but that's the catch<U+0085> man hasn't evolved yet. So, who made it and where did it come from? What is its purpose? The monkeys find a tool. The monkeys use bones to fight an opposing group of monkeys. The monkeys with the weapons are now the dominating group. Why? Because they have used their mind to gain an advantage. The more advanced monkeys, and more importantly, smarter and more innovative monkeys, are the dominate group as they have taken over the watering hole.We quickly jump into space, millions of years later, where we see a bunch of spaceships floating around to classical music. We can see the earth, the moon, the sun, the universe. And for a film made in 1968 the visual effects are stunning. The score is legendary. The cinematography is spectacular. The editing is, however, atrocious. There are countless shots of boxy looking space ships floating in outer space for, what feels like, an infinite amount of time. Once we board the ship there isn't much to talk about. For the next hour Kubrick shows various shots of life in outer space. Kubrick shows us the life of an astronaut, which is very boring, and we completely get the message. The spaceships interior and exterior are bulky and outdated looking. Remember what the first cell phone looked like? Me neither, but that's what the future looks like in 2001. All the characters have clothes and hairdos that resemble 1968. The chairs are decorated in bright red colors, and they're oddly shaped because we all know, in the future, we're going to be sitting in weird looking chairs. The computer screens are hideous looking and this is obviously prior to HDTV because the clarity is atrocious. All the TV sets look like they're from 1968, so it's not all that futuristic. Like all films set more than 20 years in advance, they look terrible and unconvincing. Just because this is Kubrick, we shouldn't say, "Well, that's how you would think it looks." No, I wouldn't. Just like I wouldn't think a computer would be talking to me in the year 2047. It's not going to happen and if someone made a film right now, set 30 years in time, and had a talking, self thinking computer, I would laugh at the stupidity of it. Just like I did with "2001". HAL is the liveliest person- shoot<U+0085> I just called him a person. HAL is a computer, but he has more life than any of the muted characters in this film. And HAL actually thinks he's alive. He sees humans as his maintenance men who take care of him while he does all the work. HAL "reads" the lips of one of the very few conversations between Dave and Frank and he "sees" that they are planning to turn him off. This is where the only dramatic part of the film enters- An ensuing battle between a red light and a guy in a spaceship trying to get into a bigger spaceship. Oh, the drama!! Once HAL thinks he has the upper hand, Dave makes his way back into the spaceship proving mans ingenuity. Dave proceeds to terminate HAL. HAL pleads for his life as he slowly fades away, which, like everything else, seems to take forever. If the scene was shortened I think it could have been truly incredible. The final act is just as tedious as the first two. The huge block that the Apes found appears again at the end. It comes out of nowhere... again. Then, an infant is born in a placenta-like shield overlooking the earth from space. What is Kubrick saying? Is it about transformation? Dave to an infant? Is man evolving again? Is Kubrick saying this is the end of man and the start of<U+0085> whatever that alien looking thing is? Maybe I'm going crazy trying figure out what this crazy director is trying to say, but the more I think about it the more the beginning and the ending make sense. There are a few questions left unanswered, especially for the purpose of the blocks, but if you can make it through the film it should spark some thought. The film moves at a snail's pace. The first act and the third acts are fairly strong, but the second act meanders around, hovering in one place for what seems like eternity. There is some intriguing ideas in the film that will provoke some thought if you give it a chance. And for that, it finds some level of profound greatness.


                
I neither love nor hate this movie which is rare, most people seem to have pretty strong feelings towards it either way. The best thing about this movie is that it looks fantastic, the special effects look better than most movies today which again proves that practical effects will always be better than CGI which can look fake at time. A lot of work went into those effects and I can appreciate them and think about how they made it all look so real in the 60s. Where the movie falters is the plot because what is the plot of this movie? The characters have almost no personality and are just tools in the movie, the best character and the only one which has an arc is of course HAL-9000 which is an AI. HAL is menacing and creepy and all the scenes with him were great. I wish the movie followed Dr Floyd and had him go to Jupiter and beyond because his personality was being established and he could have been more developed, instead we get two astronauts who we are supposed to care about but we don't because we just met them and don't know much about them. Furthermore the music is great but really the ritualistic sounds that start playing when the monolith appears would have made any scene creepy, I could have filmed myself looking in the mirror and put that music over the video and it would have been creepy. The space travel scene scared me more than many horror scenes probably because of the subliminal messages combined with the music, Stanley Kubrick is a master of creating creepy scenes that scare me even though they are technically not scary, the way he combines music and visuals to create atmosphere is perfect. All in all the movie is a special effects showcase and the effects do look great but that is not enough for this movie to be one of my favorites. People complain about the Transformers movies being just a showcase of special effects but this movie is exactly that. Now I am not saying the Transformers movies are better because they are not, they are so visually loud they are bound to give anyone a headache but I am just saying that both Transfomers and 2001 are made to showcase special effects and of course 2001 does it much better. It is however a dish that looks like the best thing in the world but the taste doesn't live up to it. Still I enjoyed it despite being bored in a few sections of ships docking and other things and I kind of dig the weird ending, it is definitely a movie I can appreciate on many levels but I just think it could have been so much more.
This film is proving that Stanley Kubrick has already bring the Hollywood on largest par based on the technology. I just wandering how he can erect this high tech sets in 1968 itself. Before Spielberg there was Stanley. Otherwise the screenplay is very dull and the first dialogue itself is only after 25th minute of the film. I watched this film by using headset and some of the sound portion gives me headache. It is watchable movie to encounter how intelligent is Stanley Kubrick in creating the space movie in the year that Hollywood film have no any technology improvements.


                
The plot contained in the 2:23 runtime of this movie could have been compressed into three fifteen minute episodes, and still been as confusing as the full 2:23. At the end of it, one has a vague concept of a fantastic history of human cosmology, but that's it.That said, the remaining hour and a half of stubbornly stunning and gratuitous visuals of space features, spaceships, and people walking in zero-G make up an overstuffed, artery-clogging rich sci-fi environment -- one which anyone living on the planet earth after 1977's Star Wars will find entirely unnecessary, and pale in comparison.All of this together leaves one feeling they've been insulted or tricked out of a small chunk of their life, in a relatively effective and intriguing way. Some movies leave you feeling that was cheaply. This movie did so with extravagant style.


                
I have always appreciated the visual marvels of this movie. The images are powerful and lasting,and the usage of classical music to add awe to the effects of mankind's venture into space was a very smart decision on the part of Stanley Kubrick and the editors of the film. HAving said that,I can think of far more engaging stories that have been committed to celluloid.The film,an adaptation of Arthur C.Clarke's 1963 bestseller,is probably best summed as a study in contrasts: the first,a dry look at the beginnings of man on Earth,learning to tame nature and each other,the second,mankind's utilization of technology and it's betray of man. The problems to me with this film are probably as much its most distinctive traits: namely,the pacing is glacially slow,there is precious little dialog and the visual image effects are drawn out to the point of tedium. If you are straining your ears for some sort of plot resolution or denouement from the characters involved,or seeking a central point of focus in this movie,you will be sorely disappointed. Having said that,this film is far better viewed on a large screen or an IMAX,because this film's qualities seem to befit a medium that allows for a sense of awe or wonder. Seeing this on a small screen broadcast or on VHS almost completely dilutes the experience. To true film fans,this film is AT LEAST worth a look or two. But I'd be lying if I said that this film was a very ingratiating film view


                
A film, first and foremost, should be good storytelling. It should be entertaining - and entertaining doesn't necessarily mean "laughs", and it doesn't necessarily mean "light". It basically means you're not bored while watching it. As brilliant as 2001 may be, it is a difficult film to watch, especially for the current (video-game-playing/iPod fumbling) generation. Its slow pace and the sometimes intolerable amount of time it takes for an actor to perform a single action (e.g. the attempt to rescue the crew member floating in space) will stretch your patience. On the other hand, the cinematography is brilliant, the film cleverly directed, the ending thought-provoking and the score...the score is chilling, especially as the crew in the transporter approaches the artifact on the moon. Boy, I had goose bumps, big time. This doesn't happen often when I watch films, and is a testament to Kubrick's directing skills. It IS considered a classic, and many people consider it the best science-fiction film of all time. That alone is a good reason to watch it if you haven't done so yet. However, just because everybody else thinks it's a brilliant film doesn't mean you have to force yourself to like it. You either will (like it) or you won't. Perhaps the slow pace isn't such a bad thing, after all. Directing your attention to something rather static and slow-paced for 2 1/2 hours might teach you a lesson. It will certainly be a different experience to all these fast-moving, fast-paced images we are subjected to these days (whether commercials, music videos or video games). I myself think it's a "memorable" film. But not one I'm eager to watch again anytime soon (unless I'm in a particular mood for slow-paced films). Hence, 7 stars out of 10 from me.
first i want to say that i am not perfectly bilingual so my typing is horrible i hope you will be able to read my review even with this issue1) At the time this film was release nobody has ever done anything like it. It is the father of the whole science fiction scene with is incredible images and the way Kubrick made to create these.2) That being said this is the most boring movie i have seen in my life the characters have no personality at all and the story is bland. I have not calculate it but i surely think that more than half of the movie is some image without any sound. Maybe that it's me that doesn't understand it but i don't get the purpose of it after 1 or 2 time we see the wonderful images if half of the movie is made of it this will certainly be boring To conclude a cinema classic but deadly boring and an other time sorry for the poor English i wish i can at least be understand pleasure Max


                
I have come to appreciate and find sci fiction movies fascinating. When I found this on Netflix i heard briefly about it. I took into consideration the time it was filmed and all (1968). For the most part this movie just wasted my evening, only about 45 minutes of this 2 and a half hour long druggie sci fiction flick. That's right druggie, when i say that my guess is that even though no one landed on the moon just yet 1968 was rolling around hippies and all, along with the Vietnam War. This movie was very slow and dull, scenes seemed to last forever, audio was repetitious, and talk was minimal and well monotone. Now I'm debating if i bother watching any other Kubrick film. I'm 18 (don't do drugs) and action i can do without sometimes, but this just bored me i'm surprised i made it to the end, i was confused so much of the time because of the little to no talk i didn't have a clue what was going on. A big disappointment from Kubrick.


                
A visually stunning film, told in several distinct yet interconnected parts, with an excellent score ... though the world didn't turn out quite like this, at least not yet;-) Keir Dullea in his career role as Dr. Dave Bowman, and Gary Lockwood as Dr. Frank Poole, travel into deep space to Jupiter, in order to explore the origin of a strange black monolith (the object which connects the film's story-lines), found on the moon by Dr. Frank Lloyd (William Sylvester).This masterpiece by director-producer Stanley Kubrick earned him his only Oscar, for Best Effects, Special Visual Effects no less, though he also received a Best Director nomination, and shared a Writing nomination with Arthur C. Clarke (his only nomination). The Art Direction-Set Decoration was also nominated. Kubrick had previously received director and producer nominations for Dr. Strangelove (1964) and went on to earn 7 more nominations, in various categories, before his death in 1999 (two years before this film's title;-)The real star of the film is the HAL 9000 computer (AFI's #13 villain), who at first assists astronauts Bowman & Poole, before something goes wrong and "he" takes over the mission, with tragic results. The film is #22 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movies list & #40 on AFI's 100 Most Heart-Pounding Movies list. "Open the pod bay doors, HAL." is #78 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movie Quotes list. #47 on AFI's 100 Most Inspiring Movies list.


                
Yes, we have HAL, we have aliens, we have interplanetary travel and interesting philosophy on what it is to be human.  But the tunnel sequence with lots of colours is just played out *waaaaaay* too long.  The only way you could enjoy it is to be stoned; it just raises the irritation level way too much. Although we got the theme for the computer game Elite out of the space docking sequence, that's about the only thing that had going for it too. To be a truly great movie they should have slashed these sequences by about 2/3rds, and then they could have added some of the better parts of the book they ended up leaving out.  Read the book instead.


                
This movie wasnt liked that much in 1968 despite its incredible special effects, and today we like it because "special effects were great for its time", Ive seen around 1000 great movies and this is among the overrated, it lacks the standard of what a critic asks from a movie, still some rate it highly not due to what they see but what the genious Kubrick "wanted to do"


                
I watched 2001 expecting to be engrossed from start to finish, absorbed in the plot and visuals, but I wasn't.I made a mental note of how many times I slightly nodded off during the film, a total of eight, the biggest one at the end where I had to rewind to the journey sequence to Jupiter, which I fast forwarded again until I got some proper visuals of Bowman getting old.But for all the negative points above, I did enjoy the film.I'm therefore going to attempt to address some points that I haven't seen mentioned in the fifty or sixty reviews on IMDb I've already read.Firstly the positive.At first I thought the apes looked a little too much like men in costumes, until I realised they were supposed to look like that, especially at the end of this section when the aggressor apes become different in stature, more upright and visibly stronger and able to manipulate objects. The apes were vulnerable, and that was nice too.There's a section where the scientist calls his daughter on the advanced intercom device to wish her happy birthday and apologise for not being there, probably included by Kubrick to wow us back in 1968 as to what future intercom technology would be like, but it was a nice scene nonetheless, especially the distracted but still attentive nature of the little girl. I also appreciated the way $1.70 was charged for the call, pretty much like pre-paid credit in the modern age.The interior designs of the spaceships were really impressive and beautiful, although the chairs in the Hilton were bizarre. The curved aspects of the walkways, reflecting the round outer design of the spaceships seen from space was a nice touch too, with the interior design, snappy male suits and beautiful air-hostesses with weird hats, a real treat. While eating spacefood slop, each astronaut watched the news on his 1968 iPad equivalent, for example.HAL 9000 was the best part of the movie for me, especially his voice and calm rationale. Fixed camera settings on the red eye, the outline of his computer casing on the panel, in between eight or so flat screens. If you've seen 'Moon' with Sam Rockwell and the computer voice played by Kevin Spacey, you'll get extra joy from the deadpan HAL. The use of display panels in general was a real surprise too, sometimes simplified with a background colour and a single, abstract word.As to the negative.The HAL and character development part of the film was not enough. What should have been a dialogue between crew members concerning gradual suspicion about the motives of HAL turned into a simple "let's switch him off because he made a single improper diagnosis". HAL reacts to the threat of being switched off by eliminating the crew instead, which is fair enough from a computer's point of view, resulting in a single survivor eventually getting the upper hand and managing to achieve the desired disconnect sequence himself. I really loved the pleading by Bowman, asking HAL to let him back on board, followed, in contrast, by the pleading of HAL not to be switched off once the tables had turned.The space travel sequences were dull though. The outer space visual effects are praised by even the biggest critics of this film, but there is no real sense of perspective when spacecraft move across the screen, often feeling like cheap camera panning tricks used back in 1968. The visual effects in Star Wars just ten years later are better than this, in my opinion.The music was too much, going on and on and on, overly loud, repeating the Blue Danube at an extremely intruding level.Everything was just too drawn out and long in between scenes, obviously for the sake of art. I recently watched 'The Tree of Life' with Brad Pitt and really liked it, but funnily enough, the abstract scenes bored me in this film.For all that, I'm pretty on the fence overall. I like parts of it, dislike others. If Kubrick had concentrated on the plot and character development, for me this film would have been much better and less soporific. The parts of the film that were based around characters and interior design were terrific, but the space scenes were mostly uninteresting. And that's the surprise. I expected the opposite - terrific space visuals and a pretty boring story, instead of a pretty dull space movie with invigorating characters and brilliant interior design.
Recently I viewed this movie again. Although the story becomes muddled starting with the Jupiter and beyond sequence, nevertheless the movie deserves praise for its special effects and its attempt to delve into the origins of man. And although the story has little action and sparse dialog, it nevertheless succeeds in engaging the audience's attention and maintaining a certain level of suspense, at least for the majority of the film. The problem is that the film ends not with a bang but with a thud. What starts off as being intriguing and at times almost sublime ends in a quagmire of uncertainty as the audience is left wondering what to make of the final scenes. Leaving the audience guessing is not a good way to end a movie and for that reason the movie can be characterized only as a qualified success. When I first saw this movie years ago, I was so intrigued by the music and special effects that I would have rated it a 10. But, alas, time marches on and so does my taste in movies. Recently I happened to watch this movie again and to my chagrin I found it BORING. What made the movie even more unpalatable was the pretentious and muddled story ... or message ... or cryptic allegory ... or whatever, that left me feeling profoundly annoyed. What the heck is this movie about anyway? I liked the beginning with the actors jumping around in monkey suits screaming at each and fighting and, well, acting a lot like people, but when the movie introduced the obelisk ... and then the space station ... and then the talking computer with an attitude ... and then the astronaut growing old ... and then a baby in a capsule looking at earth ... I knew that somewhere there was a message, but it was a message not received by me because frankly, my dear, I didn't give a hoot. The one character in the movie I liked, in fact the only character in the movie that is worthy of the term "character," was the computer. If the movie had just been about the computer, and how well he ... or she ... or it ... sang "Daisy," I might have liked this movie a lot more. This movie is an example of people getting in the way of a perfectly good story. Let the computer explore space. People have more important things to do.
I had to watch 2001: for a second time after so many years. The first experience wasn't so pleasant, I didn't really appreciate this film at all to say the least. Well, it was certainly a feast of mesmerising visuals for the senses. Unfortunately, though the ensuing storyline I felt was a tad confusing<U+0085><U+0085>especially the symbolistic signs and direction near the end.
The quality of the production was flawless<U+0085><U+0085>the special effects, set designs, costumes and music was outstanding. The dialogue I felt was slow and drawn out, very frustrating after awhile.  2001: has greatness in a calm and collective way<U+0085><U+0085>I realise now how everyone would determine the significance of this film in their own minds, picking out what impressed them the most. My interpretation of 2001; was the beginning of creation, progressing through time and finally exploring space. The mysteries and questions are hurled at you....from all angles. At times it's difficult to comprehend, a truly thinking man's film. I hope I'm not the only one who didn't understand a few scenes??? I think a person would have to watch this film a few times to grasp further insight, it's not a film to just simply watch and forget. My lack of patience sometimes gets the better of me and for this reason I probably didn't enjoy 2001: as much as the majority.Nevertheless, I do agree it was a landmark film in it's day and still is...extremely indepth and awe inspiring, my rating - 7/10.


                
I used to consider this a great film. Now, I think it a triumph of technology, but its just a period piece.  There are just too many flaws (like the really bad cuts in the opening sunrise sequence) to call it great. The characters are unbelievably flat, the dialogue is no better than trite and the incredible adventure being shown on the screen elicits nothing more than controlled comment from robots. These are the same generation of astronauts, remember, who managed their way through Apollo 13.  Comparing the characters offered by the screenwriters makes painfully obvious how much of a cartoon we were offered in 2001. I'm sure the film hasn't changed, but I have. But what it might look like with some modern effects and plausible character development is something we'll never enjoy. Sad.


                
According to legend, during the premiere of 2001, Rock Hudson walked out of the screening yelling "Will someone tell me what the hell this movie is about?" Today I feel his frustration. Is the movie a marvel? Yes. Is this film ambitious? Yes. In the words of Bernardo Bertolucci a film "made in poetry instead of prose?" Yes. An entertaining film? Well...define entertaining. For while those on its wavelength would certainly benefit from having watched what is still regarded as not just a gold standard in science fiction but the ONLY standard in science fiction, others not inclined to watch ten minutes of flickering, tunneled lights shouldn't bother. My unbiased mind tells me I have just watched something near perfect, yet my biased, more affecting senses yen for something a little more emotionally rewarding.I honestly find 2001: A Space Odyseey to be prosaic. Stifled from the movie's top-heavy ambitions and need for perfection that it cannot register on an emotional level; at least not to me. It justifies itself by sending a message about technological society and how one day we will move beyond the tools we use to a higher form of consciousness.It's a message worth postulating and the midriff of the film properly highlights the movie's motif of said tools used for mutually assured destruction versus self-discovery but can't we encompass these themes into a tighter package? Then again I suppose if the film's point was introduced in familiar wrapping it would be easily digestible but also easily forgettable.Stanley Kubrick's work as a whole just doesn't hold much sway with me. His earlier work like The Killing (1956), Paths of Glory (1957) and Spartacus (1960) are to me, the perfect balance between intellectually stimulating and emotionally satisfying. Dr. Strangelove (1964), A Clockwork Orange (1971) Full Metal Jacket (1987) have their moments if only for their macabre sense of humor but 2001 along with Barry Lyndon (1975) and Eyes Wide Shut (1999) remain in my eyes, Kubrick at his most aloof.http://www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com


                
2001: A Space Odyssey is often titles as one of the best movies in the world and the landmark movie of Stanley Kubrick. The visual look of the film is stunning and the plot is ahead of its time. It is hard to believe that the movie came out as early as 1968. Still my opinion is that the movie is far too slow. There are many ridiculously long scenes without any true purpose. Some people have proposed to just relax and enjoy the scenes but my opinion is that the movie cannot be counted as a movie in that case. Also some people have praised using drugs and watching this movie under their effect. I don't think a movie can be judged as a masterpiece if it requires you to be high to be able to get through with it. That's why, although the movie was visually and technically stunning and far ahead of it's time, I dare to disagree calling it as the perfect and one of the best movies in the world although it is definitely better than average. The music created a good atmosphere to the film and the moaning sound of these strange stones were brilliant and chilling. The biggest downside was the famous "intercourse" scene that I find to be absolutely unnecessary to the movie. I disagree in every aspect calling it as a brilliant move. Finally the famous "lsd-scene" was just way too over length watch and my interest to the movie died over there. As a shorter scene I could have called is as visually great but the total length of the scene was just ridiculous. Kubrick might be a stunning director that fights against the mainstream movies but I find 2001: A Space Odyssey is far too overrated movie. If the criteria for a masterpiece movie is that you need to be high to get impressed from it, then I could agree that this movie is a masterpiece.
