This tangled story centers about Julia-Roman dynasty, during the Pax Roman : Octavius Augustus and his successors ,Tiberius , Caligula ,specially Claudius and Neron. Octavius Augustus (Brian Blessed) nephew and heir of Cesar forms the second triumvirate with Marcus Antonius and Lepido. Antonius is married to Octavia, Augustus's sister. After that, Antonius married Cleopatra and they are defeated by Augustus in Actium. Augustus married Livia(Sean Phillips)who had formerly given birth one son named Tiberius(George Baker). The daughter named Julia , was born in a previous marriage of Octavius, and with a husband named Marcello who's suddenly poisoned . Then Julia wedded general Agripa, Octavio's friend , they had two children : Cayo and Lucio, early deceased. Agripa, Germanicus(David Robb) and Druso (Ian Ogilvi) die and Tiberius will inherit the Roman empire. Scheming Sejano(Patrick Stewart) will rule in the shadow. Later on, the evil Caligula (John Hurt) assisted by Macro (John Rhys Davies) rules over the empire, he married Caesonia (Freda Dowie)and proclaims senator at his horse. He's succeeded by Emperor Claudio(Derek Jacobi)who married Messalina(Sheila White) who will cheat him with a lot of lovers. Finally Claudio is married to Agripina (Fiona Walker),Neron's mother. Direction serial by Herbert Wise is excellent though has been filmed on theatrical scenarios. Set design and costumes are of first rate . The serial is very atmospheric, Roman time is finely designed. The runtime movies is overlong , but it will appeal to history enthusiasts because is well adapted from a magnificent novel by Robert Graves . Everybody actors give outstanding acting . Special mention to the main cast as Derek Jacoby as a good guy explaining ironic comments and hiding his intelligence behind his stutter and crippling , Sean Phillips as astute empress who gradually maneuvers her son Tiberius takes the throne and of course Patrick Stewart as intriguing general, among others. Rating : 8'5/10 , very good , better than average.


                
I understand why this series is disliked by some reviewers here. It's too talky at times. Its historical accuracy is occasionally dubious. The make-up is sometimes not very good. There's a crying need for a few extra dollars in budget to generate some convincing crowd scenes. Livia (Sian Phillips) sometimes rattles on for too long. All of that said, this is excellent TV. At its best it's extraordinary - John Hurt's performance as Caligula (the best Caligula ever, exceeding even Jay Robinson's in "The Robe"), the stunning death of a Roman matron who has been debased by Tiberius, the rise and fall of Sejanus, the rise and fall of Messalina, and the many perfect performances in small roles (for example, John Castle as Agrippa Postumus and John Rhys-Davies as Macro). And, at the heart of things, the truly wonderful, eminently human Claudius as portrayed by the great Derek Jacobi. I would think even the famously touchy Robert Graves found this series to be eminently watchable. (By the way, I found Graves' novel "I, Claudius" to be unreadable. What a disappointment. What a feat by Jack Pulman to take that thicket of prose and turn it into a fine teleplay.)
Rent this and for the next few weeks that snaky, insidious theme tune will be inching its way across your subconscious. Especially as there's no other music in it, contributing to the stagey, slightly hollow presentation. Don't expect any long shots of the Colosseum or exciting chariot races, it's all on set.The historical context and arch dialogue delivered by star turns such as Sian Phillips, George Baker, Brian Blessed, Derek Jacobi and John Hurt may convince you that this is more highbrow drama than it really is. I enjoyed it, but it follows one theme: someone in the Roman court is overtly or covertly murdering their way to the succession either on their own or someone else's behalf, and the others are too dim or cowed to prevent it. I'm not sure how historically accurate it is, and watching innocent people get stitched up is only so entertaining in my book.It does get a bit repetitive after a while. Even the star turns are more entertaining than impressive. Phillips might be channelling Disney's Wicked Queen as Livia, while Hurt is not too far off Kenneth Williams in Carry On Cleo in his portrayal of Caligua.Some nasty stuff implied rather than seen but which would give Hostel 2 a run for its money make this non-family viewing, on the other hand those drawn to it for that reason would be disappointed by the lacklustre orgies. By disc four I had got quite depressed by its goings-on, there really seemed to be no respite from it. That's not to say it isn't very enjoyable at times, but it seems to peak just before Caligula's arrival.If you're still keen for a bit of Roman when you've completed the series, the movie Quo Vardis picks up where it left off, dealing with Emperor Nero's reign (Nero is well played by Christopher Biggins in I Claudius and Peter Ustinov in the movie).


                
Jack Pulham's mature and well-considered transforming of two novels by Robert Graves into a coherently plotted narrative made possible "I, Claudius". The novels "I, Claudius" and "Claudius the God" resurrect this intelligent, whimsical and much-maligned figure from the dustbin of history. He comes alive, with those who peopled his world from childhood until his death, at a time when the Roman Empire, having "sold its soul for a pot of message" were reaping the disastrous crop sown by their invasion of the Near East in the second century BC.; this disastrous military act turned Roma from a stiff-necked but promising republic into an incompetent but voracious empire, Romans soon watched all the safeguards of their Senatorial system vanish. What had been an elected oligarchy serving the patricians and grudgingly admitting the plebeians to rights now became a full-blown nightmare, where its rulers, hereditary monarchs and later usurpers alike, claimed divinity and infallibility at the same time--a deadly otherworldly-secular poisoning in any era or nation. The series traces Claudius' despised youth as a stammering boy considered slow-witted through the careers, deaths and disasters of his royal circle and of the empire itself. Under emperors Augustus (Brian Blessed), Tiberius (George Baker), the mad Caligula (John Hurt), and Claudius himself (Derek Jacobi), the empire becomes uncontrollably totalitarian--a condition symbolized in the credits by a serpent crawling over tesseracted images seeking its prey. Many important and valuable persons die violent deaths, through poison,or worse, in the episodes. Livia, his wife (Sian Phillips), poisons Augustus and has the heirs Germanicus (David Bass) and Drusus (Ian Ogilvy) done away with. Others in the cast include Margaret Tyzack as Antonia, Patrick Stewart as Sejanus, lovely Irene Hamilton and Stratford Johns as unfortunate victims of Imperial expediency, plus John Rhys-Davies, Bernard Hepton, Peter Bowles as the rebel Caractacus and hundreds more. It needs to be mentioned that the director, Herbert Wise, does very well throughout the series; his only problem comes with some young actors, female and not, who are not very good at anything. But despite a low budget for sets, the dialogue and strongly-defined relationships, the carrying out of the main theme that no one is safe where self-restraint is unknown permeates every scene in the work like some eerily sweet-and-bitter scent. Highlights of the episodes include: the loyal friendship of young Drusus and Germanicus; the family quarrels under Augustus' troubled reign; Livia's speech to the grumbling gladiators before a day in the arena, exhorting them to stop faking death and really die; Margaret Tyzack's priggish but welcome common-sense; the episode of the accusation of Hamilton and Johns; the perfidy of Sejanus, the elevation of a startled Claudius to the throne; and many more subtle scenes between two or more persons, such as those wherein a libidinous daughter is being exiled forever or an old friend issues a warning, etc. With a bit more money and the right director, there are probably several fine films in the material that was dramatized here; the (1937) Alexander Korda attempt to produce "I, Claudius" foundered on Charles Laughton's inability to come to grips with the character and was never completed; since then the era has seldom been touched except in biblical propaganda films and cheaply-made Italian thrillers. "I Claudius" is a story set in an era that could easily support more fine historical efforts; but it will be a long while one suspects before a narrative effort as strong as Jack Pulham's will be solicited or offered to serve so worthy and entertaining a project's realization


                
