Maybe it's because I saw this on network television and never saw it in the theater or on video, but this movie was a piece of crap. It was never explained how or why Jack Torrance ended up being the maintenance man for some godforsaken hotel in the middle of the Rocky Mountains during the winter. I don't even think it told you he was an English teacher in a prep school and that he was fired for punching out a student in an alcoholic rage. If I had never read the book, I wouldn't have known these things. It had the look of a Tuesday Night Movie of the Week. The whole thing looked rushed. It was a joke. Shelly Duvall and Jack Nicholson both looked like caricatures. Jack Nicholson gives me the creeps anyway, and I can't look at Shelly Duvall without thinking of her as Olive Oyl in POPEYE. She looks like her, even in this movie. My friend and I laughed our asses off when Jack came in with that ax and started chopping up the hotel. His, "Hi, Wendy, I'm home!" And "...Heeeerrreee's Johnny!" THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE SCARY??? Please!!! Not worth another viewing. Well...maybe after I've had a six pack or two. 2 out of 10, only because I'm in a good mood. I can't believe this is from the same director who gave us PATHS OF GLORY.
I've recently gone back to look at films that terrified me in my youth, to see if they still have the effect on me. The Hand That Rocks the Cradle, The Shining, The Exorcist are all films that aren't any good once you get out of childhood.Jack Nicholson plays Jack Torrence in Kubrick's adaptation of Stephen King's masterpiece The Shining. I can only think of one positive thing in this film, and that's the fact that it's still psychologically scary and disturbing to this day, even when I'm in my twenties.However, Kubrick changes way too much from the novel for this film and you can tell that he was re-writing the script during production. I re-watched a lot of Nicholson movies over the years and realized something... Nicholson is playing Nicholson. He's never playing The Joker, or Jack Torrence, or anyone else but himself.I am not convinced that Jack Torrence is a sane man at any point in this movie. In the car on the drive up to the Overlook Hotel, Danny (Danny Lloyd) says, "it's okay mom, I know all about cannibalism, I saw it on TV." Jack retorts this with a creepy, "see, it's OK, he saw it on the television." This just speaks out to me that the hotel didn't turn him insane, he was already insane.Stephen King's version in 1997 fixed everything that was incorrect in this film, which is basically 98%, I'd say.First, Jack's alcoholism is all wrong in this film. He didn't break Danny's arm in the past, he breaks it while at the Overlook. He was fired and not allowed to teach due to the assault incident at school.Secondly, Jack and Stuart Ullman in this film seem like old friends, but in the novel and Stephen King's miniseries, they loathe each other.Thirdly, in Kubrick's version, it takes about 20 minutes for Torrence family to be alone in the hotel. But, the pace in Stephen King's allows for it to come more gradually and this succeed in convincing you that Jack Torrence slowly turns evil.Fourth, in Kubrick's story-telling Jack kills Dick Holleran. But in the novel and King's version, Jack sacrifices himself to get Dick, Wendy and Danny safe.Fifth, Danny's imaginary friend Tony is not a, "little boy who lives in his mouth." Tony is actually Danny all grown up and just talks to Danny giving him advice.Sixth, in Kubrick's version, Jack Torrence's boiler responsibilities are basically omitted. Wendy (Shelly Duvall) is shown doing something with the boiler once just before Jack wakes up from a nightmare. In King's version, it's the boiler that ends up killing Jack.Seventh, there was no hedge maze, it was hedge animals. They attempt to attack Danny, but Wendy saves him by coming out to check on him.Eighth, Wendy in Kubrick's version has a rocky relationship (to say the least) with Jack. Jack seems to not be able to stand her presence. In one scene, he tells her to don't come into the room ever again, using profanity. Plus, in the book, it's mentioned Wendy is a blond bombshell (supermodel looks). In King's version, Rebecca DeMornay is a better Wendy, not just because she fits the profile in appearance...but her character seems stronger. In Kubrick's version, Wendy is described as a ghost and horror fanatic, yet, Shelly Duvall spends most of the film being terrified of everything and Jack, as well.Ninth and finally, Kubrick screws up the storyline of Delbert Grady. He is acknowledged at the beginning as a previous caretaker with his name being Charles who killed his family and committed suicide. Yet, when Jack meets him later on, he says his name is Delbert Grady and not Charles. In King's version, Grady storyline is correctly done and Watson is the one to explain it.It is all these problems with the changes or omitting of things, that allow me to dislike the film along with Jack Nicholson's horrible and unconvincing portrayal of Jack Torrence. It's horrible acting for Shelly Duvall and the overuse of her being scared and screaming about everything is also another reason. I will give it one point increase due to the fact that it's what caused me to be afraid of my bathtub or anyone's bathtub whenever I went over to someone's house.
I've read the book, and I've seen the miniseries, so my anticipation were huge before I was going to see this, the original movie, the classic. But alas, it didn't take long before I understood what this is - crap. Jack Nicholson is a great actor, and does his share here as well, but a single person cannot hold up a movie alone. The rest of the acting is really, really bad, and The Shining isn't even frightening.I really do understand now why Stephen King didn't like this, it isn't even as close to the book as the miniseries.


                
Kubrick massacred what I believe to be the scariest King novel.  It is well known that King was not happy with the results of the work, but seldom does he say so...nowadays he just says that he can't talk about the film out of respect for the dead.  A hedge maze in lieu of the topiary?  Bad casting with Shelley Duvall (and the kid who played Danny sucked as well).  Hell, the movie doesn't even end the right way.  The only thing this movie had in common with the book was the title, character names, and the fact that it takes place in a hotel.  The rest is hilarious bunk.I am also of the opinion that much of King's work does not translate well onto the big screen.  There are exceptions; Green Mile, Shawshank, Stand by Me, and ones that focused on his short stories, like Cat's Eye, and Creepshow.  Maybe it's coincidence that he worked with the directors for these. I must admit, the made for TV version of The Shining was far superior. Although, there were a few things that were left out, the truly great parts of the book are there.  The woman in the shower scene was great!  It was far more in depth simply because it was made for TV; it had plenty of time to tell the story and develop the characters.  There was an actual Tony, instead of a finger (that was such a dumb concept).
------------------------------SPOILER----------------------------And then there was Jack (Steven Webber), who took the long, hard descent into insanity, rather than going from 0-10 in the first 15 minutes of the original.  He actually died the right way as well, screw freezing outside in a hedge maze, lol.  I don't know, maybe I'm too loyal a King fan (although he too, has written some crap, but I like most of it), but I think that Kubrick made the worst adaptation of a King work.
I have a running argument about "The Shining" with a friend who has a varied and keen appreciation of film.  He does not, however, see many "horror" films (if that's what "The Shining" is), and does not like or read Stephen King.  Which brings us to the point:  I think "The Shining" is a great novel, a truly scary entry in it's genre.  Like many King novels, it is about wasted people who become vessels of or for evil.  That may sound silly, but try comparing "Dolores Claiborne" (also an excellent film) with "'Salem's Lot" or "The Dead Zone" or "Gerald's Game", and you'll find there's more there than just sharp teeth or things that go bump in the night.  "The Shining" is, in its simplest form, the study of a man who is a failure at everything he does, including becoming an alcoholic.  This is not a paean to King, however, or to suggest that he's a misunderstood Shakespeare.  There is more to his novels than a serious reader or filmgoer would suspect, and Kubrick leaves most of the meat of this story out of the film.My friend and I also disagree about how one reviews a film based on previously published material, and whether the original source must be invoked in comparison.  Regardless of one's bias to that particular issue, Kubrick fails on both fronts here.  (I believe it is a valid comparison to review both film and original source.)  I found "The Shining" to be miscast (Shelley Duval????), poorly acted (Duval and Nicholson, who is just over the top), and poorly adapted for the screen.  The Scatman Crothers character is made superficial (all that way JUST for an ax in the chest), the development and attempts at denial of Torrance's encroaching madness are barely sketched, the heroic and suffering role of Wendy is replaced by Duval's whining, the hilarity of Danny talking to his finger (the now famous croak "REDRUM!") still amuses me, and the subtle horror of the novel is replaced by the ridiculous "Elevators of Blood" scene.  I've seen much better psychological horror films ("The Haunting", "Daughter of the Mind") and better raw horror films ("Night of the Living Dead", "Halloween",  "Prince of Darkness"), and this film is just BAD.I believe "The Shining" receives good reviews because "Kubrick!" directed it and "Jack!" plays a loony in the lead, but it just doesn't cut it.  It is well-filmed and has some good scenes and lines.  But, if it's not a horror film, then what the hell type of film is it?  I'm also a big Kubrick fan, and although his career peaked with "A Clockwork Orange", his later efforts (excluding this one) still have merit.  If you disagree with what I've written, then read the novel and see the much better TV film adapted by King (even though he wrote in a hokey ending).


                
I've watched this twice because, the first time round, I couldn't believe how awful it was. The script, direction and performances completely throw away the empathy created by Stephen King's brilliant novel and the impression is that the director felt either indifferent to or contemptuous of the source material. The received wisdom is that the late Stanley Kubrick was a genius. Not on the evidence of this film. He may have been a talented film-maker but he is/was not the New Messiah.Kubrick's Shining is a travesty of the book, a one-dimensional film without any emotional impact. The trailers are intriguing but, in truth, there is little more to the film than they show. None of the performances (with the possible exception of Scatman Crothers') have any light or shade and the music score - cobbled together from Bartók, Penderecki and Ligeti - is monotonously bleak. The whole driving force of King's story is cancelled out by Kubrick's lack of build-up and the casting of Jack Nicholson as Jack Torrance. As this Torrance is clearly insane and murderous from the start of the film, there is no story to tell. Similarly, Shelley Duvall's Wendy is ready to descend into hysteria at a moment's notice. Duvall's character is completely lacking in the gutsy resourcefulness that a proper portrayal needs. The viewer has to wonder why this version of Wendy contemplated going with Jack in the first place, and didn't go off to her mother's as suggested.Even worse, Kubrick trivialised the central idea of the Shining, casting the expressionless Danny Lloyd in the role of Danny and reducing his psychic alter ego Tony to a waggling finger! King's careful build-up of a supernatural threat is trivialised into a series of scares and "chilly" scenes. Kubrick reportedly auditioned thousands of boys for the role and still managed to get one without any apparent acting ability. Kubrick and his collaborators also threw away the important character of Hallorann, having him killed off immediately on his reappearance. Surely it's arrogance to disrespect your source in this way.Admittedly, the film's visuals are impressive: but it seems to be about creating striking images and little else. The result is a relentlessly cold experience that never elicits any sympathy for the characters: a multi-million dollar ornament. Fans of Peter Greenaway and people who enjoy "art house" films will like it but, for those of us who enjoyed the book, the film is an ordeal. I may be a heretic but this film annoys me intensely as a representation of a great novel; nor is it good storytelling.
Having read the book and been fascinated by Stephen King's portrayal of family issues, alcoholism, and the haunting nature of the Overlook Hotel, I figured I might as well watch the critically acclaimed film to go along with it. Man, was it horrible.To put it bluntly, it's as if Kubrick read the plot synopsis for the book, nodded his head, and made a movie. Almost none of the film reflects the events or atmosphere of King's original work. Not only that, but key components that are stressed over and over again by King are completely missing in this 2+ hour atrocity. Furthermore, no one but Scatman Crothers do a good job acting in this adaptation; even Nicholson somehow fails to deliver a decent performance. The camera angles were very well done, but the things they were showing made me face-palm at almost every scene, without fail. The music was excessive and eventually downright irritating. There wasn't a moment in the film when I was scared, mystified, or on the edge of my seat. Overall, surely a huge disappointment for anyone who's read the novel and expects anything at least remotely above mediocre.


                
I suppose that every classic movie has its detractors, and I'm afraid I'm one of these for The Shining. Didn't like it. First of all, I'll confess that Stanley Kubrick is not my favorite director, and the geriatric-snail pace of this movie reminded me of the time I rented 2001: Space Odyssey, another Kubrick film that didn't care whether it got my attention or not.Unlike other Stephen King stories that have been brought to film, this movie does a very poor job of defining the evil that our heroes/heroines must face. There are a few lines of dialogue at the beginning about caretaker Grady, but not much more then that before the weirdness starts. We don't know exactly why Jack goes insane, and it seems as though we're expected not to care.This screenplay is very light on heroes, too. Jack obviously is not one, and Wendy spends the entire film looking like she's missed several AA/drug rehab meetings. Even little Danny, the boy who has the gift of "Shining" began to get extremely annoying with his chanting "redrum" constantly towards the end of the film. The result of these bizarre, hysterical, annoying and unattractive tendencies meant that by the film's end, I didn't care whether or not any of the characters lived or died. There really was nobody for me to cheer for. The character of Dick Halloran was the closest thing to a hero, but like anyone who struts into a mayhem-infested house announcing his presence,  he was just a little too dumb to survive this flick.Many accolades have been given to the film's music. I don't know why. It sounded as if the producers were really trying to save money, and hired a few kindergartners to bang on pots and pans for some key sequences.Jack Nicholson's acting was one of the two redeeming factors for me. His (unexplained) disintegration into a maniac is horrifying to watch, and it defines Nicholson's status as one of the best actors of the 20th century. However, I think he was misused in this film. The character always seemed to be slightly  nasty, and by the end of the film I got the feeling that the character really wasn't going crazy, he was always this mean and just letting it show in it's entirety now time.The other enjoyable piece of this film was the camerawork, particularly the sequences that involved the camera chasing Danny's bike around.Didn't like the film, and I probably won't see it again. I'm just happy I can now recognize the classic scenes that came from it.


                
Was this supposed to be scary
was I missing something
cause it was dead and dull
and what was up with Danny lloyed and his second personality it has no use in the movie the shinning was never really explained or used and the mother Shelley Duvall wasn't that bad but I found myself looking and staring at her teeth through out the entire film
as for the build up of Jack Nicholson's Jack torrance you really don't notice anything like the build on insanity until the last 30 min or so and even then your like who the hell cares you just want the movie to end I also noticed a few problems near the end like when the mother is the bathroom after sending her child out through the window she stays there for a good couple of mins before going to look for her son but then goes up stairs like why would he be there she also tends to run so pathetically i was laughing every time
I can see why Stephen King hated this movie this is not scary at all it's a slow stupid drama that never lives up to the hype I can't believe I wasted my time watching this but then again I have been fooled before


                
What makes the Shining great as a book ? Character development. The main protagonist is a normal man, a loving husband and father, who doesn't show any signs of insanity. But then he is enchanted, he slowly turns mad to the point that he is consumed by a state of crime. Instead, in the movie, Nicholson goes nuts from the beginning, hardly plays his true character, Duvall shouts, and then the ridiculous chase between him and his wife and their son, and the final trail inside this ice maze, was the ultimate embarrassment. You have a great cast, and the only intention is to sabotage a great story just for what ? Ego and pride ? As usual, Kubrick demonstrates again his intentions of betraying great novels to turn them into silly soap movies. I'll give it a two because Nicholson tries hard, but the script is so bad that it is basically the same ambiance that reigns from the start to finish. It is really maudlin.
I haven't read the Stephen King novel, which was supposed to be much better. But it's easy to see why he would have objected to this movie production.For one thing, the caretaker is supposed to be a normal human being who slowly becomes mad as he stays at the hotel. But Jack Nicholson's character seems sinister from the beginning. Instead of slowly going mad, he seems to have been that way from the beginning with nobody else noticing. Yet the movie implies that the ghosts of past residents are for real, as one was able to physically free Jack from the pantry. Did they drive him mad, as they presumably did to the previous caretaker? And what would be their motive? Nothing is hinted at.Also, there are elements such as the child talking to his finger, a blood-filled elevator, and two ghostly twin girls who appear sporadically, none of which (according to other reviewers) appear in the novel. What purpose do they serve, since they don't advance the story in any way? The "shining" is presumably how the boy telegraphs his sense of danger to the man in Florida, summoning him, but why he has it is never covered.
I watched this film last night for the first time and the be honest was thoroughly disappointed. The reviews and 'scores' had me anticipating a classic. What I got was a film that was in my opinion so badly acted that it was actually funny in places. The storyline was so butchered that it frequently failed to make sense (with random ghosts popping up all over the place with no 'back story'), and was so slow and boring that I really could not understand what all the fuss had been about. Suddenly I could understand why Stephen King had reputedly been so annoyed by the movie - it would certainly have put me off reading any of his books had I not read any previously!In my view the film's only redeeming factor was its musical score, which was indeed a bit spooky and tension building - but it was never going to be sufficient on its own to rescue the film entirely. It may well have been ground breaking in its time (but I don't feel qualified to pass judgement upon that), but it left me completely cold in 2015 - and not even vaguely 'concerned', let alone 'scared'! I honestly thought the reviews must have been for a different version, as this turned out to be one of the worst films that I have ever watched, and believe me I have seen some rubbish!
I don't know what the director wanted to accomplish when he produced the film, but the only thing he got right are the names from the characters and the name of the hotel. All other details from the book are incorrect. It almost looks like the producer wanted to change the complete story.For those who haven't read the book: The storyline is unclear, most of the time something happens and you haven't got a clue how or why that happens, and the acting is terrible.


                
I expected quite a lot after my father said that this was "the creepiest film he had ever seen" but in fact it was annoying to watch.I have to add, that I did read that book which was definitely a mistake. When I read the book I was scared. No, not only scared. I was that freaked out that I was only able to read the last few pages with the lights on and the TV running - preferably commercials. So when I decided to watch the film I expected something equally terrifying, especially as I am a fan of Jack Nicholson. What I got was.....disappointing.I do not want to point out every flaw the film had (which were many) but only the two that annoyed me the most.1. Jack Nicholson. I really do like him BUT he tends to overdo it - which he did. Which he extremely did. There was no transition from loving husband to creepy guy he just was a creepy guy - which kind of destroyed the film. There was one grimace after another and that was NOT the point of the character.2. The annoying screaming woman. A sex-goddess and loving mother in the book she was turned into a not so sexy (to be nice) super incapable woman whose only purpose was obviously to annoy the audience. Ten minutes into the film (meaning 5 minute car drive and intro) my greatest desire was to see her die painfully, and the screaming hadn't even started.So, in conclusion: if you haven't read the book and feel a desire to get your eardrum ripped out: watch it. anyone else should definitely read the book.2 stars because of one good scene with the child and the age-bonus.


                
Jack Torrance (Nicholson) is a down-on-his-luck writer trying hard to rebound back. Jack applies for and gets a position as a winter overseer of an old Colorado hotel named the Overlook. With the hotel shut down for the winter Jack will be solely responsible for maintaining it while it lay silent and unoccupied for the winter. A perfect time for a near last ditch effort to revive his career and save his strained relations with his wife (Duvall) and son (Lloyd). But a sinister side to the lovely hotel slowly exposes his family (particularly himself and his son) to supernatural goings on that threatens to make them yet another chapter in the hotels creepy past.Kubrick who revolutionized SciFi cinema with '2001: A Space Odyssey' (1968) turns to horror with this his adaptation (with Diane Johnson) of Stephen King's best-selling novel. Being a hardcore King fan I've had a beef in the past with how Kubrick had changed certain aspects of the source store. In particular much of the family frisson of the novel seems to be lost in the film. The new ending in the maze is a bit of a let-down next to the topiary from the novel but in the end I understand the change even though you'd have thought that the visual pioneer behind 2001 would have found an interesting workaround. However, petty gripes aside 'The Shining' is a wonderfully photographed and at times can be creepy and unsettling. Nicholson steals the show as he always does when his character destabilizes emotionally and heads toward perfectly maniacal and classic Jack territory. Duvall seems a bit out of place but if the old production stories hold true about how Kubrick terrorizes the performance out of her then maybe it's not entirely her own doing.In short 'The Shining' is a very effective and at times stunningly attractive film that has a rock-solid air of menace that piles up by the conclusion. Fans of the book may develop issues but Nicholson and Kubrick fans will eat this one up.


                
Sure, change some things, but not the most important points of a story. I tell you, you don't kill off the most important person in the story. They totally negated the whole point. If you do that, you do not understand the point of the story. And they did it twice!!! If you want the real story watch the miniseries done later.
If you are into action and action horror movies, this is not for you. This was the 2nd worst horror film I have ever seen in my life, Congrats, you have a reward, 2ND WORST HORROR MOVIE EVER TROPHY. I was so bored, it was way way to long. I don't get why anyone one likes it. SPOILER : The only good part about it was the end when it had the surprise about July 4th 1921, that was the only good part, why is it so good to everyone else?
After 38 years, I still can't get it, why does this movie have 8/10 rating. First of all, this isn't horror. Second, the story is extremely butchered up and unnecessarily prolonged. The plot is easily predictable. Nothing creative about scenes, yeah actors were great but the movie is DULL. TL;DR Waste of time, don't watch it.


                
I hated it. From Shelly DuVall's constant whining to the Danny Torrence "croaky" voice, the film grated on me all the way thru. Nicholson had no chance of saving this dud, as no matter how hard he tried, the whiny DuVall upstaged him. Scatman Crothers? Better suited for Hong Kong Phooey.Avoid this version. The disappointment you feel after watching it will grate at you for a lifetime. Terrible.The two stars I gave it were the dialogue from Nicholson to DuVall, and I quote, "I'm just going to bash your brains in." Too bad he didn't.
A masterpiece at that time, an ordinary movie at the moment. I liked the movie. A very good horror-thriller. It isn't scary and it is boring sometimes, but that's the way it had to be for those times. A lot of movies that were made after this one (till these days) are much better, but we have to keep in mind that those times were different than nowadays. People had a different manner of thinking; the conception, the ideology and especially the prejudice were different... were much stronger than today. So that's why horror-thriller movies like Hitchcock's or Stephen king's are considered somehow masterpieces. Because those movies gave the start (and many ideas) for the following of this genre. Those movies were somehow "pioneers" for the genre (especially for psychological horror-thriller genre). So... "The Shining" is a good movie. Watch it if you like the genre.


                
