"The Shining" was an overly hyped horror flick that has gained a cult status of a classic. But after watching it, I was disappointed. Based on Stephen King's novel, the film drags and goes on for an inordinate length. Had watched "Apt Pupil" based on the novel written by the same author. Comparing the movies, it becomes obvious that the stories have promising beginnings but fall to very unrefined clichés in the end.The film does have few moments but by then you just start to lose your interest. The film deals with double personality and hallucinations, but on the term, the film is nowhere close to the spooky thriller "The Sixth Sense." Where the presentation of "Sixth Sense" was tremendous, "The Shining" remains utterly boring. Only the saving grace was the nice camera work and the grandiose of the setting; else other remains forgettable.Rating: 1 star out of 4


                
I thought this was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, if only because of its absurdity.  Stanley Kubrick showed, as in 2001, that he can take a great story, and basically ruin it.  Critics applaud everything he does, only, in my opinion, out of respect for such magnificent efforts as Paths of Glory, Spartacus, Dr. Strangelove, and Full Metal Jacket.  He added so much pointless stuff to this story, that I had to stop taking it seriously.  I'd heard such great things about this movie, and I have applied my Taxi Driver theorem, named after Scorcese's Taxi Driver.  If a great director does a movie, and it's extremely odd, and has a lot of stupid, quirky, just plain weird things in it, the critics will applaud it's genius, out of a fear of being called stupid.  The critics were probably afraid to admit that they just plain don't understand the movie, so they praised it in a way calling anyone who doesn't understand it stupid.  Unfortunately, no one will admit when a great director makes a mistake, so this has gone down as one of the greatest horrors of all time.  I, personally, couldn't stop laughing the entire time.


                
Stanley Kubrick's "The Shining" has got to be one of the all-time worst big-budget horror films ever made. Everything about The Shining said "expensive", but nothing about it said "scary".It truly baffles me that such an impressive director as Stanley Kubrick would ever consider tackling the mess of a typical Stephen King horror novel and try to adapt it to the screen.All-in-all - The Shining was a dud. There was only one murder in it, which, in my opinion, was a completely unforgivable body-count when it comes to any horror film.Two of the biggest strikes against this film were the casting of that goofus, Jack Nicholson as Jack Torrance and having that pudding-faced kid, Danny Lloyd, as Torrance's brat son, Danny.
I hate nihilist cinema. I find it a lazy way for filmmakers to remain apolitical when storytelling is by definition a political artform. A personal artform. If you have nothing to spew but indiscriminate misanthropy, your work will begin to grow tedious for me. So was the case for my relationship with the filmography of Stanley Kubrick. I can only be told so many times how evil and misguided and unsubstantial humanity is over and over and over again before I grow tired of it. I'm perfectly resigned to Kubrick following this childish philosophy on his own works, that's his right as much as it is mine to avoid them. However, when he takes the deeply humanist and personal work of Stephen King, my favorite author, and spins it into a hateful, ugly excuse for him to preach his toxic, unproductive and adolescent worldview, that's where I draw the line.I despise Stanley Kubruck's The Shining with every fiber of my being and I say that while acknowledging its technical achievements in the fields of cinematography and visual storytelling. On a purely aesthetic level, The Shining is an admittedly unsettling and uncomfortable work. I would never in my right mind accuse Kubrick of not knowing his way around visuals. Images like the blood drenched elevator, Jack's smiling visage peering through a door hole and the Grady twins holding hands in the Overlook Hotel are undeniably memorable, striking and disturbing. That being said, they hardly improve the writing. Kubrick's films feel more like museum narrations than movies, hollow collections of imagery with nothing in the way of true narrative significance. The stories serve the imagery and not the other way around. It's all so empty and insincere, why should I even care?Jack Nicholson is an incredible actor let down by miserable writing. Sure, he makes for a presence both amusing and frightening, and for the one-note caricature of an abuser he's asked to play, he does everything required of him and more. Unfortunately, his performance lacks any character, as Kubrick forgot to give him one. Kubrick is so caught up in his disgust and distaste for humanity and all it represents that he takes no care to examine where its detestable aspects even stem from. Jack Torrance is nowhere close to his literary counterpart; a good man driven towards the path of darkness by both interior and exterior factors. Instead, he is nothing more than a monster confident and proud of his own monsterhood, a cartoonish and one note villain for the sake of villainy. Violence and abuse are turned into subjects of cheap and lazy mystery by a man who neither has the answers to them nor particularly cares to find them. His film's narrative depth, for all the film's deep pretensions and misconceptions of a higher artistic purpose, extends no further than that of a slasher film. Torrance's inhumanities later in the film are as unearned as Kubrick's rights to ravage and strip away any semblance of substance and humanity King's work may have possessed.Poor Shelly Duvall. The highly talented, charming, funny and lovable actress of Nashville, Thieves Like Us and 3 Women is reduced to an overacted, screaming mess here. It's one of the most obvious and blatant cases of awful overdirecting I've ever seen. If a director can't get a natural, convincing performance from an obviously actress without psychologically and emotionally torturing to them, they aren't a great director to me. With all of the interesting ways Kubrick could have utilized Duvall's talents to match the personal and heartfelt work of King's outstanding story, he apparently found Duvall bugging her eyes out and screaming like a goat to be the most fascinating and appropriate from a narrative standpoint.The various attempts at symbolism regarding the suffrage of Native American tribes (The Hotel being built on the basis of an ancient Native American burial ground, the designs of the carpets, e.t.c) are lip service at best, half hearted attempts from an apolitical, art-minded cynic to imbue his work with just enough racial politics to appear credible, but not enough to actually be thought provoking or challenging to Kubrick or the audience in any way. It feels condescending and insulting, if anything.From Sergei Eisenstein to Orson Welles to James Whale, the great filmmakers of all time Have always been political. But Stanley Kubrick is not one of the greatest filmmakers of all time, as much as he wishes to be. The Shining on its own is just another Kubrick film; a style-over-substance museum piece made by a man who believes in nothing, who we're apparently supposed to believe in. For Kubrick to be cited as the greatest filmmaker of all time is something I'll never quite agree with. However, as an adaptation of Stephen King's work, it's absolutely unforgivable. It's telling that out of all of the adaptations that King could have chosen to slate, he's been particularly harsh on this one. He has every right. The Shining is less a "fall to darkness" story as it is an exercise in just how passionate a filmmaker can appear with nothing interesting to say at all narratively.
This won't be an in-depth review, as my numerical vote sums up what I am about to type quite handily: The reason for the title of the movie is for the most part missing from the film. Aside from the fact that the ending is completely different from that of the novel, and that the author of the novel wasn't given any input into the making of the film, or that the lead actress was basically tormented by the director to give such a mousy performance which goes against the grain of the book as well...the actual Shining, the purpose of the book being written, is hardly included in the movie. Take a look at the mini-series if you want the author's true intentions seen on film, for that is a most superior version. I know people think of this as a horror classic, but for those of us who know the source material, disappointment ensues.


                
Well, the best thing of the movie The Shining is the actor Jack Nicholson who is an excellent actor. But seriously The Shining may have been scary in the years from 1980 to 1990, but compared whit todays horror movies it is a joke. I did not get scared watching the movie, there is not a scene where you can get goose bumps. Maybe in those days the (80s) people could not imagine what was happening to Jack Torrance. But in todays horror movies there are a lot of situations in which people are possessed by a demon or just strange thing that could be happening. I think that the list of the top 100 horror movies should be refreshed.


                
Brilliant direction from Kubrick and superb acting from all involved can't save a lame script. Nicholson is indeed amazing in this role. But really, that is the best thing going in the film. Kubrick gives us an eery palate and innovative camera angles and pans to create a strong feeling of disconnected isolation. He squeezes everything he can from the material but the screenplay is ponderous, at times sleep inducing. Everything in this film is predictable as every plot element is telegraphed from beginning to end. Little tension, no suspense. The characters have no depth and no spark as they leadenly plod through their preordained roles. By the end, you just go "that was it?" Why anyone thinks this is a great film is beyond me.


                
I'm firmly under the impression that people judge films purely on single scenes and iconic imagery rather than actual depth and storytelling. Case and point: this film.
The imagery is breathtaking. So many iconic scenes and images that leave a lasting impression on your mind. And this is what people remember.
But then, you start to think about the actual story. Jack Torrence's slow decent into madness was neither slow, surprising or influenced by his environment. And that's what really kills this movie. I can honestly say, if the Overlook was not haunted, this movie, as presented, would have had the exact same ending. It is really a look into an imbittered drunk who goes mad from cabin fever. Everything that goes on around him is irrelevant. Is that the point? If so, it is truely a wasted opportunity as now any adaptation that is made in the future will be judged against this and be panned for telling an actual story. There is a reason Stephen King hates this movie, because it has no soul.


                
I first saw Stanley Kubrick's "The Shining" several years ago, and my overall impression was that it was a decent, yet unspectacular horror film with a few creative touches.  Following this, I read Stephen King's flawed yet commendable novel and had a chance to view the miniseries, which was a much better interpretation than Kubrick's version (the acting and production values were abnormally strong for a made-for-TV effort).  This was back in 1997.  After a five-year wait, the much-anticipated (by me, at least) official video release of the miniseries prompted me to put both versions up to scrutiny.I popped in Kubrick's hailed and derided film, cleared my mind to be as impartial as possible, and wound up disappointed in how much the film had deteriorated in value.  While "The Shining" had never been a masterpiece, I was shocked at how little was under its polished surface.  Even if you disregard (or are just ignorant to) the merits of King's work, "The Shining" can barely stand on its own as an individualistic, one-of-a-kind horror film.  Kubrick's narrative is filled with the cinematic equivalent of foam peanuts en lieu of emotional content and characterization, not to mention general coherence.  King's book cleverly explored the parallels between the possessive effects of alcoholism with the possession of a man by ghosts--this film is about endless tracking shots of a kid on a bigwheel, blood cascading out of an elevator, and Jack Nicholson chewing the scenery as he limps around with an ax.Point by point, here are my problems with this adaptation (my comparisons/contrasts were made after viewing):1.)  The cast.  Nicholson (who is completely inappropriate for the role of Jack Torrance)'s pointy eyebrows and trademark grin paint him as a psycho from the get-go, yet I never found myself fully convinced of his possession, and his excessive tongue-waggling and eye-rolling made the performance all the more laughable (to see a charismatic actor leashed, with successful results, check out Robin Williams in "One Hour Photo").  Shelley Duvall's "aw-shucks" personality seems out of place, and she looks absolutely ridiculous running around with a knife (she and Nicholson are one of the most unconvincing couples to grace a movie screen).  And, that shrill "redrum" chant aside, Danny Lloyd gives a robotic, lifeless performance. One of the reasons for "The Shining"'s failure is that this group of offbeat performers just doesn't gel, even as a faux family.  Which leads me to...2.)  the screenplay, by Kubrick and Diane Johnson.  Even if it hadn't been culled from a previously published story, it still would have fallen flat. But since it was, it seems necessary to bring up some contrasts with the novel that have a huge bearing on the events which conspire.  I never criticize a film for not being a word-for-word adaptation (anyone who sets their expectations that high is just asking for a disappointment) as long as the fundamental points are covered.  Story elements that would have been easy to incorporate, such as the boiler (a heavy-haned symbol, granted, but it works), Jack's escalating, obsessive commitment to the hotel (here, Nicholson spends most of his time in a hungover state while DUVALL tends to the hotel...sheesh), the 'shining' itself (limited to a few scenes, and are mostly throwaways, used to--in desperation--heighten dramatic intensity), and the sordid details of Jack's unemployment (beating up a student) are just a few details that are either truncated to insignificance or ignored completely.  As a result, the characterization is frustratingly one-dimensional (so the blame can't be pinned solely on the cast), and the plot--as it's stretched out for 144 minutes--is appallingly shallow, with motivations and actions that seemingly come out of nowhere.3.)  The previous problems do nothing to help the lethargic pace of "The Shining."  Kubrick, who is notorious for his overlong "epics," has made a film where little of interest happens (could that bathroom scene be just a LITTLE longer??), but that doesn't stop him from dragging that nothing out to damn near two-and-a-HALF self-indulgent hours.  (Some actually seem to use this as a gauge to measure the quality of the film, though--the more minutes, the more brilliant "art," indeed!)  I find it ironic that King's miniseries runs 2 hours longer than this, yet has a far better sense of pacing.4.)  And, a major annoyance I have with "The Shining" is the death of Hallorann, which doesn't get mentioned much (in positive reviews, at least). It's not that Hallorann (Scatman Crothers) is a memorable character here, but the fact that his death took the final straw in the overworked yet lazy script.  It was as if Kubrick and Johnson, completely out of ideas, connected the dots to this inevitable conclusion where, in order to justify the "horror" tag, Hallorann travels a couple thousand miles, only to get an ax in the chest AND provide Duvall and Lloyd with a means of escape. Talk about shallow writing--the unsatisfactory conclusion that follows leaves much to be desired.I did like a few (very few) things about this "Shining," though.  I found the opening aerial shots to be absolutely breathtaking, and the occasionally creepy score was effective (even if it set a mood that was never fully realized); the scene in which Nicholson meets with the hotel manager for an interview is very well-handled--observe the self-conscious body language, the hospitable smile, and his use of "please" and "thank you".  For a few minutes, Nicholson is an average-Joe applicant with a friendly tone, both authentic and convincing.  It's a shame it's the only time in the film where anybody--in front of or behind the camera--exercises any restraint.In the end, my favor lies with the 1997 miniseries.  Kubrick's "Shining" plays out like a pretentious slasher film for those who deem slasher films beneath them.3/10


                
Though the best part of three hours long, The Shining simply flies past like an Andy Warhol triple bill: it's the very slowest commercial film I ever did see. Made by the world's most overrated director (who directed the world's most overrated film, 2001), with the world's second most charmless star (Jack Nicholson narrowly loses out to Marlon Brando in the Face You'd Never Tire of Kicking stakes), from a tuppenny-ha'penny shocker by arrested adolescent Stephen King, its reputation and popularity make a depressing comment on the decline of the movies.Depressing also describes the film itself: it's far too ponderous and literal ever to be pleasurably scary, settling instead for presenting a succession of predictably edited horrors that each go on for a sadistically long time. A handful of bravura visual touches only help draw attention to the miles of slow-motion stodge separating them. However, I will allow that connoisseurs of the thrills to be savoured from watching women and children being systematically terrorised are in for the treat of their lives.
The Shining pretty much signalled the end of the intelligent and tasteful horror/spook film as a paying proposition, speeding the genre's descent into gore, grue and titillation. But it does improve one's appreciation of an earlier and less pretentious era of trash horror, typified by the films of William Castle and Roger Corman. Beside The Shining, drive-in teensploitation flicks like The Tingler and Fall of the House of Usher seem as scary as Don't Look Now, as funny as I Married a Witch, as poignant as Bride of Frankenstein, and - best of all - as short and fast as an episode of The Addams Family. Y'know what? They're just not making good rubbish like they used to ...


                
Finally got around to seeing "The Shining," and was looking forward to it with great anticipation.What a disappointment! All the wonderful power of the book thrown away for 2 hours of Jack Nicholson mugging and overacting for the camera. Everything is overlit like a 7-Eleven.The dialogue is wooden, the music intrusive, the direction straight out of a high school play....The cook makes the whole trip just to be killed in the hallway, instead of being the pivot point of the rescue and the key to the ending in the book. The maze is static and boring, and what happened to the malevolent topiary sculptures? The cellar is bright and clean and perky instead of the home of the heating plant from Hell that eventually destroys Jack and the hotel and releases the bound spirits.  The whole history of the hotel is only referred to obliquely, and that was the heart of the story.Stephen King must have had a near coronary if he saw it, which I sincerely hope he never did.There is nothing worse than a purported horror movie that winds up boring and annoying. I watched it through to the end more out of disbelief than anything else. This is the same guy who made "2001"?Anybody for a remake?


                
Movie is dull and boring. Especially the sound is noisy and annoying. Whenever i started feeling sleepy , the noisy music wakes me up. Even the story doesn't make sense. I have given 3stars for acting and good decorative furniture(i mean sets).I wasted 2hr20mins, don't waste yours.


                
Someone should have told Kubrick that films don't have to run for nearly two and a half hours. Some films shouldn't be made at all. 'The Shining' belongs to that over-populated mass of things that subtract from rather than enhance life.The story makes no sense. The acting is embarrassing. Scene after scene drags. The excessive running time destroys any suspense and gives the viewer too much time to think about the stupidity of the plot.Presumably Kubrick, bloated with self-esteem, thought he'd redefined the horror genre with this nonsense. 'The Shining' is as bad as 'Lolita', quite an achievement.If this was a directorial joke, it was an expensive one without a punchline. If Kubrick thought he'd done a good job, he was sadly mistaken. Watching grass grow or paint dry suddenly don't seem such unrewarding activities.


                
Like a vast majority of Stephen King books, this one also transfers to film poorly. The only people who like this film, are those that haven't read the book. If they did, they would realize how banal this film is. There are some nice 'Kubrickian' touches, but the director himself later called this his worst movie, which it is. Those that were scared by it, would probably be scared of Mr. Rogers on valium. If you REALLY want to have the bejesus scared out of you, trust me, read the book.


                
Leaving any debate about the book versus the movie aside, in all honesty, I only purchased and watch this movie because it makes me laugh. I'd like to point out that I saw the movie before I ever read the book, so I didn't go into the film looking for something more only to be disappointed, it disappoints me all on its own.While I think the themes and the subject matter of the plot are definitely interesting and even terrifying, I think it was handled very, very poorly in this film. Unfortunately for me, it is without a doubt the actors, or rather their acting that just drags this film downhill. When the actors are delivering their lines so poorly that it makes me laugh, I lose sight of the plot and its little nuances. If I can't believe the actors' portrayals of the characters, I'm not going to take the story seriously.Jack Nicholson gets me to laugh so much in this film when I should be scared that it's disgusting. Between his facial expressions, vocal tones and his pointed eyebrows, I find Jack Torrence comedic. Shelley Duvall's portrayal of Wendy Torrence has me desiring more. I don't believe a single word that comes out of her mouth; it all sounds like an act to me and a bad one at that. And those are just two of the characters. The rest are equally as bad, if not worse.I don't think the music helps all that much either. Often too loud and just not quite seeming to fit, it adds to the hilarity as it emphasizes a point that should be horrific but only transforms it into something ridiculous. Or this excessively loud music contributes to my holding the remote on my lap so that I can turn the movie down when they decide to raise it to unnecessary ear-splitting levels.These aspects hamper the tone of the film and I really don't feel the fear or anything else the film has to offer. It could have been a fabulously horrific film, but instead it only ends up a comedic disaster.


                
Kubrick was famous for disappointing the author's whoose books he adapted to the screen. In many cases it didn't matter because he often improved upon the source novel. Not so in this case. His Morison of The Shining pales in comparison to the novel. While most films aren't as good as the novels that inspired them (some are better - see 'Jaws')this goes beyond failing to live up to. There is little character in the film. I didn't care for these people the way I did when I read the book. Their history was striped to the bare essentials losing all of the richness that could have been there. In all of this Kubrick manages to lose the one thing many film adaptations struggle not to which his the novel's central theme. On the page it is ones dealing with loving the parent that also beats you. On the screen I don't know what it is. Kubrick was a great director (see just about any other film he did to see this) but here is the dropped ball of his career.
There is two versions of this movie: One by Stanley Kubrick and another by non other than Stephen King himself.Honestly, no one can portray Stephens' books any better than what he would be able to. He wrote them and know exactly how it should look like, what it should feel like, how it should make you feel and how it should influence you.I think that the only one whom can put Stephens' thoughts and his mind into living action, would be himself. This version of the movie, is not the one you wish to see or even own for that matter. The one you want, is the one Stephen produced himself in 1997.There is a sure lack of story and enthusiasm in the 1980 version of The Shining. Where as in the 1997 version by Stephen King, you are literally at the edge of your seat. There is never a dull moment and when you find Danny screaming, you feel like screaming your head off with him.Here's the IMDb link to Stephen King's The Shining (1997): http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118460/


                
This has to be the most overrated movie, This movie bored me to death every time I watch it.The summary of movie is about A novelist - Jack Torrance take a job interview as winter caretaker of the isolated, old, huge and beautiful Overlook Hotel. In the interview, Jack is told by the manager himself, that the previous caretaker - Grady, chopped his family and later killed himself with a shotgun. Ignoring the story, Jack brings his wife - Wendy and his son Danny . It happens that Danny, has a mysterious power known as "The Shining" that shows him things from the past and future. Some of the visions come from Tony - "the little boy who lives in Danny's mouth". Danny meets Hallorann - the hotel cook in their first day arriving at the Overlook, who also has this "Shining" and he warns him about the hotel and the sinister Room 237. As the days go by, Danny has visions of previous guests and employees who died at the hotel years before, meanwhile Jack starts driving into insanity, turning more and more aggressive, at the point that Danny and Wendy gets convinced that Jack might try to do the same thing.I have seen this movie 4/5 every time I watch it, I always seem to fall sleep after the only one good scary scene with the naked women in the bathtub, that is the only worth checking scene as nothing else in this movie scared me or creep ed me out.I have really tired to like this movie the more I watch (Or even here about ) it more I hate it!1st)) I didn't like – Why? I was disappointed as it bored me.2nd) Wendy screaming did my head in for a least 2 day, I was wishing that Jack would chop her head off with the Axe, at least wouldn't have been boring.3rd) well fell sleep 10 seconds after hot naked women in bathtub.4th) I Just fast forward to the part with naked Ghost and then turn it offThis is not good adaptation at all and I think it one of worst Stephen kings adaptations it better to read book again and again and again and again.I Wish I could see what everyone else sees's in this movie.3/10


                
This movie had such high production values and the director had such a penchant for perfection that one must wonder why this movie falls into the basic guidelines of a horror movie.  How disappointing...The suspense is rather lax because many of the characters wind up as caricatures that we can't sympathize with...not to mention the ending makes no sense in context with the rest of the story.  Kubrick's prior masterpiece, 2001: A Space Odyssey, relied on the enigma of space to project a story without explaining everything to the audience.  Here, the movie only tells us half the story then leaves us on the wayside to make it up as we go, thereby making no sense.I wanted to like this movie. Sadly, I popped John Carpentar's The Fog in after this and was shocked as to how much superior of horror quality was present.In conclusion, this movie has only it's powerful cinematography and performance by Jack Nicholson going for it.  Everything else passes off as inferior, cliche, and mood-destroying.  See any other Kubrick movie for a better experience. Overall, 2 out of 5 stars.


                
So, Kubrick completely neglected King's novel, to present... this?
I've had already read the book before I watched this horror mov- I mean comedy. By not wanting to get to any details I'll just say that whatever happens in the book is very well amplified and justified.For example you get to see, or read (whatever), about Jack's slow decent into madness. In the film it's obvious he's insane even before he steps into the Overlook. So why use objects and people from the novel that basically were what made Jack lose his mind if they've not a reason to exist in the film? And if, as it is very clear to see, Jack had lost his marbles (a reference from the book), why would Wendy and Danny not object to being isolated for 5 months in the middle of nowhere with him?I honestly believe that if I hadn't read the book I would be completely lost. Due to the film's inexplicable turn of events and the dullness of it all characters, backstories, more or less everything doesn't stick with you.Lastly, for such a praised film, the acting is just bad. Making the whole thing humorous, if not of course, ridiculous.


                
I first watched THE SHINING shortly after it came out, in 1980. By then, I was already a firm Kubrick fan, after watching THE KILLING, PATHS OF GLORY, DR STRANGELOVE, CLOCKWORK ORANGE, BARRY LYNDON and, above all, 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY.Unfortunately, I found THE SHINING well below the quality of its predecessors and, in truth, Kubrick entered a downward path from then on, even if his movies were always interesting and imaginative in a variety of ways.THE SHINING opens with an unusual piece of sloppiness, provided by the overhead tracking shot up to the hotel, and you see the overflying helicopter's shadow on surrounding hills and ground for a few seconds. It sets the tone for a recurrent mixture of careless shots with masterly sequences, all ultimately undermined by a script riddled with credibility holes, an unconvincing supernatural presence, and a mansion/hotel that is not as haunting as Kubrick would like it to be, among other goofs and structural shortcomings.Naturally, in light of the above, direction is disappointing: Kubrick is unusually sloppy and unobservant of detail. Cinematography is uneven, with some brilliantly executed sequences, and some pedestrian ones. Finally, the acting: Jack Nicholson is supposed to play the paranoid and schizophrenic Torrance, but he plays Jack Nicholson, trotting out all his usual mannerisms; Shelley Duvall shrieks far more than she acts; Danny LLoyd, her son, seems a bit spaced out, but perhaps that is part of the powers that eventually cause him to neutralize the family«s nemesis; Scatman Crothers I remember for massively bandy legs and the pictures of beautiful topless black women on the wall, rather than for the quality of his acting; and Philip Stone is the exception, with a short but well performed part.Nothing memorable about this Kubrick effort, least of all the rather pat ending.


                
A significant percentage of Steven King's works have been converted into cinematic adaptations, which, according to the author, have not become any good films of water, and since they often do not come from water at all, they remain watery and superficial. Kubrick's "shine," however, is a bit different. "Shine" is an important film because it proves to us two fundamental things. First, it is possible to watch a filmmaker from the skilled film, and secondly, the adaptation of cinematic and transition from the medieval of the novel to the medium is a very pervasive work that calls for and maybe impossible somehow. Although it is not in the "brilliance" of flawless filmmaking, and there can be many shortcomings in a detailed and in-depth article, the author believes that the "brilliance" of the main impact has been drawn from the screenplay. A script written by Kubrick based on a novel by Steven King, and perhaps his great mistake, has gone down to a story from this author. Steven King is a writer who basically builds his stories based on characters full of details, and then allows his story space to be born out of such carefully-drawn characters, and in an in- depth manner, authored by, and alongside The characters will advance his detailed story. This is exactly what does not happen in the movie. Kubrick, obviously, is fascinated by the details of King's story, and therefore insists on bringing all the "glow" elements to Kubrick's "glow". He is unaware that he has abandoned these details of time, and consequently, since King, as such, does not have the opportunity to cultivate them, he is not able to link the details to one another. This has led to no connection between Kubrick's characters and his hand-made space. In King's own words, King is one of Jack Nicholson's most fundamental problems. The novel by Jack Thorens, influenced by space, goes mad, while Jack Thurens movie is crazy from the start with Nicholson's abandoned and exaggerated play. In general, we see that the screenwriter remains alright in the pursuit of the story due to the lack of proper payment of space and personalities, and it is completely out of place to accomplish it. As evidenced by such an ineffectiveness script, nothing has been done except for the formidable filmmaking.


                
I much prefer the television version that was made later. Sorry, but Jack Nicolson looks crazy normally. Hard to see him slowly going crazy when he looks to begin with. And Shelley Duval is too much of a wimp. Keep seeing Olive Oyl. Read the book after having worked at a Hotel in the Canadian Rockies so I could really imagine the story. Had to turn the light back on when I finished reading at 3:00 am. Had a hard time going into bathrooms where the shower curtain was covering the bathtub. But the movie just didn't do it for me.Sorry but Jack is Jack Nicolson not Jack Torance in this movie. He seems to play himself in most movies....


                
there's just no way for me to enjoy this one, no matter how i try, but i'm a die-hard stephen king fan. if you've never read his superb novel, nor seen the made-for-TV version, you'll probably like this movie and think that i am an idiot. the movie has a few really good points, most of the credit going to jack nicholson's stellar performance which lends several images that last even today, over 25 years later, namely his 'here's johnny' impression and the expressions he has during his mania. also, the ending is close to what was intended, and it's even kind of scary but it loses the metaphor king intended. i've been told that kubrick didn't want the project, but king wanted him to do it, which makes some sense for the way that it turned out. if you want to see a movie that will probably scare you, then you should indulge but if you want to see a good adaptation of stephen kings classic novel, then rent the made-for-TV version put out in the last five years which has nothing to do with stanly kubrick.
There is much to recommend in Stanley Kubrick's "The Shining." Unfortunately, beautiful cinematography, clever editing and some good performances are subverted by a few awful cinematic horror cliches.  A cobweb-covered dining table surrounded by skeletons?  How many movies had we previously seen that in?  I can name at least one -- 1972's "The Night Strangler."  There must be many more.  Was this supposed to be some sort of a joke on Kubrick's part?  He didn't even add his own twist to it.And how many times does he repeat the identical shot of blood pouring from the elevator?  At least three times do we see this.  Did he really think it would continue to unnerve on its third replay (especially when we'd already seen the same shot months before in the trailer)?  "Whoo, look at this -- gallons of BLOOD coming out of the elevator!  Isn't that scary?  Here, let's play it again.  See?  Whoo!  One more time for the road!"
Puzzling choices for a director as brilliant as Kubrick.And there is so much intentional humor in Jack Nicholson's performance that I don't find him frightening at all.


                
