BBC's epic eight-part documentary series Human Planet is a fascinating celebration of humanity's ability to adapt to all environments across the globe, from the comfort of modern cities to the outright hostility of jungles, oceans, and the frozen wastes. Typical of the BBC, the footage contained in each episode is some of the most spectacular yet to be filmed, taking full advantage of improvements in filming technology and accessibility to remote regions. Each episode (covering Oceans, Deserts, Arctic, Jungles, Mountains, Grasslands, Rivers, and Cities) tells several stories relating to how communities survive in their particular environments, and the lengths people go to live in some truly difficult places is at times humbling and deeply admirable. Where Human Planet shines most is when it focuses its gaze on the more remote people of our planet. Whether displaying the tribal courting rituals of the Wodaabe people in Niger, the mussel gatherers of Arctic Canada, or the monkey breastfeeding of the Awá Guajá in the Amazon, each episode manages to highlight the remarkable existences carved by communities well outside of our seemingly civilized world. Actor John Hurt delivers the narration with appropriate gravitas, delicately pitching whatever tone is most appropriate for the images on screen, whether dramatic or whimsical. That said, Hurt is merely an acceptable second choice, and Human Planet could certainly have been improved had legendary documentarian David Attenborough been involved. Whatever the reasons for Attenborough's absence, it also in a sense highlights what many people will no doubt have problems with concerning this series. With previous series such as Planet Earth or Life, the BBC have removed humanity's presence from their footage as much as possible, yet here we are placed at the centre of the narrative, and, while certainly interesting, pointing the cameras at us isn't always the most pleasant feeling. Human Planet pulls back the curtain a little on previous BBC nature shows, and the sense that there are always people lurking just outside the frame, ready to swoop in and exploit the natural world is a little unsettling. For the most part, the indigenous people the series focuses on are taking what they need out of necessity rather than greed, but there are hints about the destruction we are causing to our planet. The final episode, Cities, is the most illuminating in terms of the damaging effects of humanity's spread, but clearly this was not the intended purpose for this series. There is much unsaid, but in the end Human Planet is a worthy addition to the BBC's vast catalogue of nature documentary series, and has infinitely more value than the majority of what's on our TV screens today.tinribs27.wordpress.com


                
this is worth watching, its like, learning the ART of SURVIVAL, we humans are so much adaptive to any situation & environment i didn't know till i watched this series, awesome captures & shots, i salute the crew to take such risks of their lives to bring us these huge ocean of knowledge! the most amazing thing was, the isolated tribes, living in the deep forests, about whom we had very less knowledge, & i wonder how the crew members managed to shoot there & how they communicated with them, difficult task; & i really appreciate their shooting of a tribe which was unknown to the human society till date, they did the shot from an aeroplane, above the dense forest. the shots under the water, above the high mountains, in the planes, everything is so perfect, so brilliant, i just want to say, thanks for bringing these to us.


                
I was looking to find some other documentaries about human life because I remembered seeing this documentary and wanted something just like it.The only reason why I was looking for this type of documentary is because this one was so amazing. I feel like 2 years after I watched this documentary it still my favorite. It's about the humans we normally never see. As a traveler it is very interesting apart from the fact that graphics are just stunning. This documentary also gives me the feeling that I want to get out there and look for these kind of groups myself. I would recommend this documentary to everyone (have been doing so the last two years).


                
BBC has done it again. As the worlds leading nature film producer, BBC has given us another epic.Human Planet tells the tales of the most remarkable and intuitive humans on this planet. With beauty full landscape shots and relaxing story telling. Human Planet is certainly a pleasure to watch. But it does not only give pleasure to your eyes. It shows strange cultures and their survival, narrated by John Hurt.The big line throughout the series is a bit faint and while the episodes have their own theme. The shorts inside an episode sometimes do feel a bit random. But that won't bother you. You will be amazed by some of the bizarre or clever humans we have on this planet.Although some of the shots are really good. Overall the Human Planet does not live up to the expectations after "Planet Earth" and "Life". Although the Human Planet has a more realistic feel to it because of the use of colour. It doesn't have the WOW factor that its predecessors had, throwing over saturated in HD in your face. Although I do prefer that, the Human Planet is a really nice addition to the best nature series of today.


                
BBC did again. BBC took us on a fascinating journey. A journey that no one wants to go back. A journey to ourselves. A journey to our home. No TV, no internet, no capitalism, no monetary system, no armies, no racism...in this house everyone is the one and unique. this is just amazing...ape feeding women, people in the desert, people in the jungle, people living in the most difficult conditions, hidden tribes - they will be hidden forever i hope- People who live with the animals. This documentary series is a culmination. and the music was amazing. thanks to everyone who worked in this documentary seriesThis is the remember ourselves


                
'Human Planet' is a hugely informative and exceptionally well-made series. Inevitable, though some may argue unfair, comparisons may be (have been in fact) made to the output of David Attenborough, to me 'Human Planet' is one of the better documentary series in recent years to not have Attenborough's name on it and stands wonderfully on its own, if just lacking the special magic of Attenborough's best work.There are so many great things here in 'Human Planet'. Its premise is dealt with exceptionally in every single episode, the environments, how they're lived in, how the humans adapt to the environments, the human struggles and how it all affects the environment are all interesting topics and important ones handled truly admirably. Also in a way that is illuminating but not preachy (which is a potential danger with anything environmental-themed and a danger often fallen into).When it comes to how it's written, 'Human Planet' does just as good a job entertaining and teaching, it's all very sincerely done and it never feels like a sermon. There are things here that are common sense and knowledge but one is taught a huge deal as well.John Hurt's (RIP) narration delivery is similarly spot-on, very sensitively delivered and very dignified in a distinctively John Hurt way. Arguments may be made about Attenborough being a much better choice, to me Hurt was perfect and more than held his own and although Attenborough is the master of nature/life documentaries today he can't do every single one made.Visually, 'Human Planet' may lack the awe-inspiring, almost cinematic quality of Attenborough's best work. With that being said, it is beautifully shot, shot in a fluid, graceful and never static way, and is chock-full of strikingly memorable images. In every episode, the scenery and environments (which include oceans, deserts, the Arctic, jungles, grasslands, rivers and cities) are like characters of their own, they're all gorgeous to look at and have a lot of atmosphere.Every episode is appropriately scored, never intrusive or too low-key, and the different stories are powerful in a harrowing and poignant way, not to mention very honest.In summary, exceptionally well-made and educational, well worth watching if just falling short of masterpiece status. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Human planet gives you profound perspectives on our planet earth, every episode tells a story about how we, human, survive and thrive across the world.
Visually it is not so good compare with other awesome documentaries, but its story and music and narration are indeed great.
It is a must watch if you want to know more about planet earth, about human culture around the world, and about how human and other animals, the environment develop in a harmonic way.
In a word, it's a must-watch


                
Beautiful photography and the commentator has a good voice, but the plot was so exaggerated that it became intolerable. Everything is ultimate: "THE MOST..." dangerous, fatal, life threatening, hostile. Nearly every story had two threads, each obviously scripted to be overly dramatic, and destined to collide.I am sad to see this subject saturated with this content, as it will probably out shadow better alternatives. It was a big letdown compared to other recent BBC nature content.Stopped watching after three episodes, and only kept going for so long because of the excellent photography.


                
A show about humans can´t be good! Animal Planet=Yes Human Planet=No


                
Amazing! Intriguing! Spectacular! These are a few words to describe BBC's eight-part documentary that looks at the most adaptable, intelligence form of life: the human. A form of life that is everywhere around us, but they present it in ways we never would have thought of. The most intelligent form of life and they explain some of the reasons why. The only form of life to conquer every environment on earth and they explain why. BBC Human Planet looks at the main ecospheres of the environment on earth; Oceans, Deserts, Artics, Jungles, Mountains, Grasslands, Rivers, and Cities. BBC did an excellent job of taking the basic aspects of every culture of the world, such as water, food, and shelter. They took these basic aspects of culture and life and looked at how people meet these needs in the various ecospheres of the world. They take each of these aspects and take a very in depth look at them as an aspect of culture. They include a wide variety of ethnic groups and how their cultures meet these basic requirements. These cultures range from very primitive to extremely developed. Different ways of providing food you will learn about from the Dorobo of South Kenya and their way of stealing lion's kills; the Kazakh of Mongolia hunting with eagles; the people of Northern Greenland's way of hunting auks; and the people of New York City, US planting gardens on top of high rise towers. The different ways people interact with water you will see from the goose barnacle collectors of Spain; the whale hunters on Lembata, Indonesia; and the fish divers of Philippines. BBC in each ecosphere also includes an element of how they live in shelters and homes. They also explore various cultures in their rituals, festivals, and ceremonies. They do a great job of weaving in how the culture is affected by the environment. They show how the environment of certain areas of the world is changing thus affecting the culture. BBC also looks at how western influence and modernization is greatly influencing cultures in the world. BBC did an excellent job in Human Planet of exploring the world and giving an in-depth view at cultures and how they are affected by the environment. It also looked at how these cultures are rapidly being influenced by outside factors. It is an excellent series to watch and get an in depth look at various cultures of the world.
I managed to access this 8-episode series on Netflix streaming movies. John Hurt narrates and does it so well, his enunciation is impeccable and adds nicely to the presentation.What they have done here is develop a series of approximately 45- minute episodes, presumably to play (with commercials) in a 60- minute TV session. Each episode is on a distinctly different aspect of our planet Earth. It starts with "Oceans - Into the Blue" and goes on with such diverse topics as the Arctic, the Desert, the Trees, the Mountains, and ending up with Urban living.In most of the episodes it takes us to places we likely know little or nothing about, and would likely never visit. The sound and cinematography are first-rate and the topics are fascinating. Every episode focuses on one or several cultures that live and survive off the sea or land in ways that most of us could never imagine. One of the best documentaries I have ever had the pleasure of watching. Our Earth and the people in it are fascinating!The last episode focuses on urban life and is quite a contrast to the others. Where we see many remote, indigenous tribes living off the land, where nothing goes to waste, in our urban areas we are very wasteful, both food and energy. It is a cautionary message, we need to take care of our planet Earth or we may destroy it. In addition are separate 5 to 10 minutes features for each of the 8 episodes, showing what the filming crews had to go through to get some of the spectacular shots we see throughout. For me, a long-time photographer, those short documentaries are equally interesting. On Netflix streaming they are contained in a separate program.
