A towering classic of American cinematic power.  Martin Scorsese teams up with one of the most intense actors of that time to create a masterpiece of urban alienation.  Paul Schrader's magnificent script paints a portrait of loneliness in the largest city of the world.  Travis never once enters into a meaningful relationship with any character anywhere in the film.  He is the most hopelessly alone person I've ever encountered on film.He is alone with his thoughts, and his thoughts are dark ones.  The film fools you on a first viewing.  Is Travis an endearing eccentric?  Sure, he's odd, but he's so polite, and he's got a quirky sense of humor.  His affection for Betsy is actually rather endearing.  But on a second view, you see it for what it is.  The audience comes to see Travis's psychosis gradually, but there's actually far less development than one might think. When he talks about cleaning up the city, the repeat viewer knows he doesn't mean some sort of Giuliani-facelift.  This is less a film about a character in development as it is a kind of snapshot.  To be sure, it takes the stimulus to provoke the response, but does that imply some kind of central change in the character?Tremendous supporting roles are brought to life through vivid performances by Keitel and Foster especially.  Shepard's character, Betsy, is little more than a foil to highlight Travis's utter alienation from society, but she is still impeccably portrayed.  With only two scenes that don't center on Travis, it is unavoidably De Niro's show.  The life with which the supporting cast imbues their characters is a credit to themselves, and to the director's willingness to let the film develop from the intersection of diverse ideas and approaches.  What would the plot lose by eliminating the Albert Brooks character (Tom)?  Nothing at all.  He makes almost no impact on Travis's life, which is where the plot lives.  But his inclusion makes the film as a whole much richer and fuller.As a piece of American cinema history, this film will live forever.  But far more important than that, this film will survive as a universal, ever-relevant examination of the workings of the alienated mind.  The story doesn't end when the credits roll.  We know Travis will snap again.  But the story doesn't end with Travis either.  It continues today in the cities and in the schools.  The film is about the brutal power of the disaffected mind.This film didn't cause the incidents in Colombine, or Hawaii, or Seattle, or wherever you care to look, even with all of its disturbing images of violence.  It didn't cause those things.  It predicted them.
The script of "Taxi Driver" is built like a diary, the diary of a very ordinary guy who gets hired as a night taxi driver back from Vietnam, because he can't sleep at night. A very ordinary guy who tries to break his isolation, but can't, while violence accumulates inside him. One of those unnoticed people with dark things on their mind, one of those who break up the news one day with some extraordinary outburst of rage, to fall back immediately into anonymity.The gradual transformation of man into beast in this movie is chilling. It's still funny and pathetic when the hero threatens himself in front of the mirror ("you're talking to me?"), but when he comes out with a mohawk hairdo and dark glasses, it is obvious that nasty stuff is going to take place. As in "A Clockwork Orange", violence is recuperated by society depending on what purpose it is used for. Whereas he was about to murder the candidate for presidency, "god's lonely man" fails and instead kills a vicious pimp who exploits teenage prostitutes. The potential criminal becomes a hero for a day.Such stories happen everywhere of course, but it seems that the bewildering atmosphere of New York City's summer night was the best choice. "Taxi Driver" gives us a very realistic approach of New York, in a way that is not seen on screen so often, at least not anymore, whilst that city is probably the one in the world that has been filmed the biggest number of times.Most of the movie takes place at night. The credits open on the blazing lights of the yellow taxi cab moving slowly in the dark rainy streets. A kaleidoscope of neonlight appears through the dripping windows as the driver's eyes blink in the front mirror. The night is the hero's universe, it's the time when "all the animals come out", as he says. By contrast, the few daylight scenes look somewhat off-key, but this was definitely intentional.The final scene still appears today as extremely violent, but at least, it shows murder for what it is. Brutal, ugly, crude. It is something one tends to forget about after seeing so many police series where people get shot so often that it gets casual. Real violence is not casual when you face it, and here is a film that makes you face it.The directing is first class and deservedly made path for Scorsese as a world renowned artist. Some techniques he used here are unusual for American cinema, like focusing on details for a few seconds. The movie is enhanced by an excellent music soundtrack by jazz composer Bernard Herrman who died before the picture was even released.Two of the actors also deservedly made it to stardom. Robert de Niro plays a very unglamorous character, but his presence on screen is so intense that it's no wonder it made such an impression. As for Jodie Foster, she already appeared in films as a child, but playing a teenage prostitute was certainly not an easy challenge, and probably it was that role that really turned her into a major actress."Taxi Driver" was a big hit when it came out, both for the public and the critics. It won the Palme d'Or in Cannes, and served as a trend setter for many later films, like for instance Quentin Tarantino's and Abel Ferrara's. But even today, the original model seems difficult to emulate, probably because achieving a masterpiece is a rare thing, by definition.
Taxi Driver, the classic that made Robert DeNiro Robert DeNiro. It's amazing to see how far this man has come in cinema, some of my friends ask me questions about films and advice, one of my friends had asked if they wanted to see where Bobby got the big notice I usually recommend Taxi Driver, granted he was in The Godfather Part 2 and was incredible, but Taxi Driver made him stand out as a strong lead actor. Taxi Driver is just all together a great film that is absolutely perfection. Martin Scorcesse who also was just really starting out made this movie that brought us back to the film noir genre. He made this great classic and I don't even think he realized how much it would stand against the test of time, to this day we still know this film and even if you don't know it, you know the infamous speech "You talking' to me?". This is a film about isolation, loneliness, and self destruction at it's worst.Travis Bickle who claims to be an honorably discharged Marine it is implied that he is a Vietnam veteran is a lonely and depressed young man of 26. He settles in Manhattan, where he becomes a night time taxi driver due to chronic insomnia. Bickle spends his restless days in seedy porn theaters and works 12 or 14 hour shifts during the evening and night time hours carrying passengers among all five boroughs of New York City. Bickle becomes interested in Betsy, a campaign volunteer for New York Senator Charles Palantine. She is initially intrigued by Bickle and agrees to a date with him after he flirts with her over coffee and sympathizes with her own apparent loneliness. On their date, however, Bickle is clueless about how to treat a woman and thinks it would be a good idea to take her to a sex film. Offended, she leaves him and takes a taxi home alone. The next day he tries to reconcile with Betsy, phoning her and sending her flowers, but all of his attempts are in vain. Rejected and depressed, Bickle's thoughts begin to turn violent. Disgusted by the petty street crime that he witnesses while driving through the city, he now finds a focus for his frustration and begins a program of intense physical training. He buys a number of pistols from an illegal dealer and practices a menacing speech in the mirror, while pulling out a pistol that he attached to a home-made sliding action holster on his right arm "You talking' to me?". Bickle is revolted by what he considers the moral decay around him. One night while on shift, Iris, a 12-year-old child prostitute, gets in his cab, attempting to escape her pimp. Shocked by the occurrence, Bickle fails to drive off and the pimp, Sport, reaches the cab. Later seeing Iris on the street he pays for her time, although he does not have sex with her and instead tries to convince her to leave this way of life behind. But after her rejection as well, Travis decides to take things into his own hands, "Pow!".This is one of the most memorable movies of all time and has really stood it's ground. It's personally one of my favorites and made me fall in love with Robert DeNiro all over again. The script to Taxi Driver is just so incredibly powerful and the performances were just perfect. Jodie Foster, this little girl at the time was such a presence on screen, she pulls in what was a very tricky performance and was hauntingly beautiful. Cybill Sheppard was also very beautiful and I was absolutely in love with her character and felt so bad for her. Everything about Taxi Driver is just great, I don't know how much I could go on about the love I have for this film. It's a film that you will never forget and trust me, if you haven't seen it, go out and rent it immediately, you won't regret it. It's bloody, it's twisted, it's crazy, but it's one of the best films of all time.10/10
The impact that "Taxi Driver" had in its day hasn't diminished, on the contrary, it has acquired a relevance of Shakesperean proportions. Travis's loneliness is a hyper representation of the same loneliness most humans have experienced at different times in different measures. It is always associated with a nightmare and Martin Scorsese delivers it like a nightmare. Travis, possessed by Robert De Niro at the zenith of his powers, cruises in his taxi enveloped in Bernard Herrman and we, well, we're the passengers and everything looks terrifying and familiar at the same time. Paul Schrader sensational screenplay comes to life with the jolting force of a rude awakening. Like it happens, more often than not, with masterpieces, it signed in a rather direct way the lives of the ones who live it in a movie theater and the ones who made it. Scorsese being the giant that he is, survived it and will continue startling us I'm sure but I also bet that for years everything he did was compared to this movie. De Niro and his "You looking at me" became such an iconic phrase that even he himself ended up impersonating it. Jodie Foster awoke the insane devotion of a real life would be killer and New York, the greatest city in the world was shown with its underbelly up. A work of art, a superlative reminder of what film could actually give us and very rarely does.


                
A lonely Vietnam veteran who has insomnia spends his nights as a taxi driver in the dirty streets of New York, where he encounters a young prostitute who he tries to help make a difference. This is a very good film and one of Martin Scorsese best (Goodfellas being my fave). An excellent portrayal from Robert De Niro as Travis Bickle the cabbie and good performances from Jodie Foster as the child prostitute Iris Steensman, Cybill Shepherd, Peter Boyle and Harvey Keitel as a pimp called Sport. You actually get drawn into the isolation and anger that Travis is feeling towards these lowlifes and because of that you really feel sympathy for him. Though after a while the loneliness and the city really starts to haunt Travis's mind, causing violent instincts and paranoia. This film is filled with such memorable lines e.g.Travis Bickle 'You talking to me? Well I'm the only one here.' and the many powerful scenes that stay in your head after it's finished. The hypnotic cinematography is a standout, as if your seeing the harsh & gritty New York streets and twisted people through the eyes of Travis when he is driving his cab. A great screenplay, a stunning score by Bernard Herrmann and a superb atmosphere created. This is a brutally compelling and bleak look at a decaying and corrupt society of the 70's. An unsettling gem of a film. 5/5


                
Despite what some might see as limited by technical flaws and/or as an overly simplistic plot, Taxi Driver deserves its critical reputation as a cinematic masterpiece. Some 23 years later, the existential plight of Travis Bickle, "God's lonely man," continues to pack a hard emotional punch. In fact, it's hard to know where to begin when praising the elements of this film - such elements as the dark location shots of a (now gone) seedy Times Square, the cinema verite settings of the cabbies and campaign workers, the magnificent Bernard Hermann score, Paul Schrader's fine script, the memorable performances of Jodie Foster, Harvey Keitel, and Peter Boyle all must be mentioned. However, the brilliance of this film is primarily a result of the brilliance of De Niro and Scorsese, one of the greatest actor-director teams in movie history. This is an unforgettable film and rates a 10 out of 10, in my estimation.


                
Somewhere in the shadows of the night, hidden within the restraints of his taxicab, a lonely man watches with disgust. His eyes survey the streets with all the malice and passion of a burning fire, his large pupils an open doorway leading into his soul. The demons haunt him; voices in his head convince him that the world is closing in and the only way out is through some form of moral redemption; a physical and emotional catharsis.The stranger's name is Travis Bickle and he is God's Lonely Man: a discharged Vietnam veteran who wanders the streets at night in a permanent state of confusion and self-loathing.Travis takes a job as a cab driver to keep out of the porn theaters that have been occupying his time <U+0096> deciding he might as well get paid for roaming since he does it anyway.But Travis' filtered input and odd output seems to suggest something is dreadfully wrong. The mild insanity of our protagonist begins to escalate. He approaches an attractive political campaign adviser, Betsy (Cybill Shepherd), and asks her out to dinner. She agrees, but the date is cut short when Travis takes her to an X-rated film.Travis soon meets a young underage prostitute named Iris (a fourteen-year-old Jodie Foster), whom he feels a desire <U+0096> nay, a need -- to rescue from slavery. Iris' pimp, Sport (Harvey Keitel), becomes another of Travis' demons.Taxi Driver was released in 1976 to split praise. Some critics hailed it as a masterpiece, whilst others were a great deal more reserved in their accolade. In Newsweek, Jack Kroll wrote "(<U+0085>) in their eagerness to establish rich and moral ambiguities, the Catholic Scorsese and the Calvinist Schrader have flubbed their ending. It's meant to slay you with irony, but it's simply incredible." Some critics just hated the film in general and felt the entire runtime was a mess of pretentious storytelling and depressing, gritty themes.Depressing? Yes. Gritty? Yes. Brilliant? Most definitely. Scorsese does not merely address Travis as a character; he puts us inside his head. And even so, there are instances of abnormality in Scorsese's camera work that suggest paranoia and schizophrenia; moments of displaced subjectivity in which we are neither looking quite through the eyes of Travis nor through those around him, but more at length to his side<U+0085>yet it seems that his body (primarily his hands) are below us, at the side of the frame, indicating an altered version of the traditional P.O.V.Scorsese's movie is structured using diverse narrative elements <U+0096> one of the most prominent being dramatic irony rooted in Greek tragedy (in this case, many set-up and pay-off moments). When Travis exits the brothel for the first time, a Mafioso figure says, "Come back any time." Travis responds, "I will." We know he will, too, and when he does, that's the pay-off.Above all else the film is rooted in the basic existentialism philosophies of Berdyaev, Heidegger and Nietzsche. Scorsese later admitted this his toying of genres and philosophy was entirely incidental ("It just felt right<U+0085>") but one can't help but imagine Schrader may have been influenced by Fyodor Dostoevsky's Notes from the Underground, in which our narrator begins, "I am a sick man<U+0085>I am a spiteful man." This brings to mind the scene in which Bickle dictates his journal entries to us and delivers an ultimatum to the "filth" on the streets, preceded by senseless introspective rambling.Moving on, the ultimate puzzle of the film: Does our hero live or die? After Travis is shot in the climactic battle, he lies on a sofa, presumably dying, and makes a gesture with his fingers, pretending to shoot himself in the head. The camera pulls up, overhead, and exits the brothel. It then pulls back across the street and up into the heavens, surveying the crowd below.In the next scene, Travis is alive and well, presented to the world as a hero through the media. Yet as Travis pulls away from the curb at the end of the film, Herrman's familiar four notes (the same ones as used for the final shot of Psycho, implemented when Norman Bates' lack of absolute sanity is finally revealed) come into play. A bell rings. Travis looks in his rearview mirror, as if maybe something caught his eye<U+0085> And then, suddenly, the movie ends.Taxi Driver's ending cannot be resolved further more than conjecture and opinion. Scorsese himself says on the DVD making-of documentary that he believes the ending is open for analysis. Did Travis live? Did he die? Are the demons on the street still haunting him? Are we meant to sympathize with him and believe he is a hero, or are we meant to refuse him as one? (Or is this our natural reaction against Scorsese's own wishes -- which would explain the negative reviews in '76?) But it is ultimately the haunting image of Bickle drifting through the endless hordes of nameless people on the streets of Manhattan that lingers with us after the film has ended, and remains the most prescient today. How effortlessly this man can disappear into the multitudes <U+0096> God's Lonely Man once again alone, alienated and betrayed by the world he has come to loathe. That, above all else, is the most poignant aspect of Taxi Driver.
"Travis Bickle" has to be one of the most fascinating characters ever put on film, and this has to still rank as one of the best post-film noir era "noirs" ever made.Yeah the story is a bit seedy but it's an incredibly interesting portrait of a mentaly unbalanced cab driver (Bickle, played by Robert De Niro) and his obsessions with "cleaning up" New York City.In addition to De Niro's stunning performance, we see a young and gorgeous Cybill Shepherd and a very, very young (12 years old) Jodie Foster. I've always wondered what kind of parents would allow their 12-year-old daughter to play a role like this, but that's another subject. Albert Brooks, Harvey Keitel (with shoulder-length hair!) and Peter Boyle all lend good supporting help.Bickle's transformation from a "disturbed" cabbie to a fully-deranged assassin is fantastic to watch, and includes one of the classic scenes in all film history: Bickle talking to the mirror and repeating the question, "You talking' to me?" That scene, and seeing De Niro in a Mohawk haircut later at a political rally are two scenes I'll never forget.The more times I've watched this, the more I appreciate the cinematography and the music in here. There are some wonderful night shots of the city's oil and rain-slicked streets. Also, Bernard Herrmann eerie soundtrack is an instrumental part of the success of this film and should never be neglected in discussing this film. Director Martin Scorcese has made a number of well-known (but not particularly box-office successful) films, and I still think this early effort of his was his best. He's never equaled it, although I think he and De Niro almost pulled it off five years later with another whacked-out character, "Rupert Pupkin" In "The King Of Comedy." In any case, there is no debate that Scorcese and De Niro are a great team and that Taxi Driver is one of the most memorable movies of the Seventies.


                
"Taxi Driver" is a beautiful portrayed of an individual who tries to do things his way, in the hectic and dangerous New York of the '70's. He already isn't a stable person to begin with (he's a Vietnam veteran) but through his loneliness and due to his own personal views and idea's of society and the world, he gets more and more consumed by the rotten society until he feels it is enough and decides to take matters into his own hands.Beauty of the movie is that it gets interpreted by everyone in his or hers own way. Everyone sees some different things in the story and characters. I think this also was what writer Paul Schrader and director Martin Scorsese had in mind, while making this movie. The story takes us into the world of Travis Bickle. We begin to see society through his eyes and we more and more begin to understand the character as the movie progresses. It makes his character not only a understandable one but also a very realistic one. Nothing in this movie is overdone or made to look better or worser than it is in real life.The movie is made extra powerful through the performances of the cast. Robert De Niro is a sensational main lead and the supporting cast is also real great. Some well known actors that were still unknown at the time of this movie make an appearance, such as a very young Jodie Foster, Albert Brooks, Victor Argo and an almost unrecognizable young Harvey Keitel.The entire movie is sensational- and with lots of style directed by Martin Scorsese, who knows how to set the right mood and atmosphere. The simple- but effective and realistic from Michael Chapman and the musical score by Bernard Herrmann (his last) also add to the atmosphere. Also of course the fact that New York City serves as the backdrop for this movie, gives the movie a typical dark and gritty feeling and atmosphere. Everything is slowly but powerfully build up in the movie and every sequences plays a significant role. A result of this is that the movie is filled with some unforgettable sequences, of which the famous 'You talking' to me?' sequence is the best known. But also the violent ending leaves a lasting impression.It's still a movie that applies today, after 30 years now. Because lets face it, what exactly has been changed in society compared to 30 years ago and now? The subject and meaning of the movie could still apply to present day. It makes "Taxi Driver" a timeless and important movie that is a perfect reflection of society and already is worthy of the 'classic'-status. Yet another essential '70's viewing.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Robert DeNiro gives a tour de force of acting excellence in this movie. One of the best acting performances of all time. This is a period of DeNiro's career when he was consistently churning out Oscar calibre performances one after another. He had this movie, Godfather Part II, The Deer Hunter, Raging Bull all within the same basic time frame. When DeNiro and Scorsese were teaming up to make movies it was the best actor/director combinations in movie history. You had the best mind for movies in Scorsese working with the best on screen performer of his time.It's a study of a man who's completely alone in the world even when surrounded by other people. What DeNiro was able to do just looking into a mirror asking "Are you talking to me" by himself is one of the best movie scenes in movie history.


                
Arguably Martin Scorsese's best film, writer Paul Schrader's best screenplay, and actor Robert De Niro's best performance. De Niro plays unstable Vietnam veteran Travis Bickle who the film follows down his rabbit hole of isolation, obsession, and eventual violent rage. The plot, as it is, has Bickle working nights as a NYC cab driver, becoming infatuated with pretty campaign worker, Cybill Shepherd, but when he sours that relationship due to his weird behavior, he becomes obsessed with saving pre-teen hooker Jodie Foster from her slimy pimp, Harvey Keitel. The plot could easily have become a simple Charles Bronson/grindhouse tale of urban vigilantism, but it's much more than that. Much has been written about "Taxi Driver" in terms of urban decay, isolation, desire, sex, misogyny, and as a critique of the media, all by others more eloquent than me, so I won't even try, but I will say that on a visceral level, the film is a ferociously disturbing piece of filmmaking. The audience is slowly drawn closer and closer to Bickle's madness, in a similar way to "Repulsion" or "Peeping Tom.". The audience almost understands and sympathizes with his where his thinking is coming from and are found rooting for him against the even more despicable of characters during the film's disturbing finale. Scorsese has presented a New York City that truly is a brutal urban nightmare, but at the same time has created surreal hallucinatory vision of NYC that may only be Bickle's perception of reality. Also of note, the film features memorable performances by Victor Argo, Peter Boyle, and Albert Brooks. Additionally, this was the final film scored by Bernard Herrmann and he delivers a memorably unrelenting and oppressive score that ranks among his finest. Overall, "Taxi Driver" is one of the finest pieces of cinema ever committed to celluloid, though due to it's profoundly disturbing nature will likely deny the film wide appeal.


                
I am a big fan of Scorsese (Raging Bull, Goodfellas, Shutter Island, The Departed) and De Niro (Godfather Part 2), but the brilliance of Taxi Driver still stunned me. I have seen two of the finest male performances given by De Niro in both the Godfather Part II and in Raging Bull, yet somehow he turned in his finest in this film. His portrayal and character are completely fascinating from start to finish. He creates a character that somehow transcends out of the screen and glues the audience into believing, sympathizing, and experiencing with his character. The same can be said for Scorsese. Up until this point I always had Raging Bull as his finest, but something about his work here is completely mesmerizing. Taxi Driver comes together as an incredible piece of filmmaking, with completely intriguing dialogue, and story-wise it is flawless (although technically wise I would say Scorsese was still getting the hang of it). BRAVO to Taxi Driver, and I cannot believe I waited this long to see it.


                
On the cloudy, hazy streets of New York City, a single yellow beacon stands out. A lonely, insomniac, mentally unstable cab driver does his job. All while plotting to cleanse the city of "human trash." Welcome to a real-life nightmare: Taxi Driver.With an omniscient feeling of loneliness (symbolized by a taxi) present in Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro), our anti-hero protagonist has his one element that anybody who has ever experienced loneliness in their life can relate to. However, anyone who shoots up a brothel and attempts to assassinate a senator is by no means a role model. Travis Bickle (despite his one trait that an audience can relate to) is such an emotionally disturbed person that he sees very irrational actions as perfectly sane, making him a danger to himself and to other people. The phenomenal score by Bernard Herrmann (known for composing scores for Alfred Hitchcock from 1956-1964) reflects everything about Travis. His insanity, loneliness, bigotry, and instability are all represented in a way that hypnotizes the listener in a cocktail of sound.Travis is a man that has nothing to live for in life. His infatuation with Betsy is doomed to go nowhere. He feels the need to lie to his parents (in the form of a letter) to make his life look better than the boring reality. Travis cannot discern rationally what deeds are right or wrong and, quite frankly, I doubt that he cares.The climactic final shootout (which threatened to give this movie a X rating) is an intense scene that has not lost an ounce of power today. As a kid born in the mid-90's, I can only imagine what effect images like a man having his hand blown apart by Travis's Magnum .45 had on 1976 audiences. The scene also drives home the extent of Travis's fragile mental state.Overall, this is a masterwork from Martin Scorsese. Possibly even THE masterwork (GoodFellas and Raging Bull create tough company) of his entire career. A disturbing wonder (more so for me as I am a high- functioning autistic) of the cinema that is telling of our society and of the human psyche. There are few classics in cinema that have withstood the test of time (in terms of multiple decades) in a way in which they have only become more relevant than when they were initially released. "Taxi Driver" is certainly one such movie.
Taxi Driver is one of my all-time favorite movies. Each time I see it, I am absolutely amazed at De Niro's genius. Perhaps no other actor can better portray this, or most other characters, at least those that require a great deal of talent and the ability to really become the character. De Niro never fails to amaze, and Taxi Driver is far from being an exception. The main protagonist of the film, Travis Bickle, is an alienated, slightly psychotic Vietnam veteran-and NYC cab driver-who being absolutely disgusted with his surroundings (at night driving a cab through all parts of the city), takes it upon himself to save a very young prostitute, Iris,( played by Jodie Foster)from all the "scum" (recurrent theme)-and the life of a prostitute, including a pimp. He also falls in love with a woman who works on a political campaign for a fictional senator, Palantine. Although he fails to win her over, he does attempt to assassinate Palantine..perhaps he wants to be a hero, or to save his love interest from what he regards as a useless environment. The recurrent theme is clear throughout the film- Bickle attempts to help those with whom he becomes obsessed, from an environment that disgusts him. Paradoxically, however, the lonely, useless character becomes regarded as a hero, for going to great lengths to save the object of his obsession (Iris). Taxi Driver takes you through the mind and reasoning of a lonely, obsessive man, and his attempts to bring justice to those who ultimately do not understand or care for him.
THE SICILIAN CONNECTION Taxi Driver and The Winter's Tale What follows comes from work in progress on how Scorsese's movie may cast light on Shakespeare's play.At the end of Pasolini's film of <U+008C>dipus Rex the blind king walks out of his world into the streets of modern Bologna. If Leontes, King of the Sicilians,went missing, where would he reappear? The hero of Taxi Driver turns up in modern New York of 1976, as if out of nowhere, or maybe one of his own bad daydreams. He's looking for a job to suit an insomniac. Like the Great Gatsby, Travis Bickle seems to be be born of his vision of himself, and this casts doubt on the substance of both self and vision.He gets a job driving a yellow cab. Then he falls for Betsy, a girl with class Then he goes out of his way to foul up by taking her to a blue movie. There, his attention is soon distracted from the real woman at his side . Betsy checks out in disgust. Later he calls her on the phone, but you can't tell whether there's really anyone at the other end. So his thoughts turn to 'saving' Iris, a twelve-year-old hooker who has also come out of nowhere, into his cab. Taxi Driver is set firmly in the eponymous mean streets of an earlier Scorsese movie, and before that, of The Godfather, the daddy of them all. Travis now has to kill some bad people, one of them Iris= trick, a Mafioso. Travis has already killed her pimp Matthew, or Sport - almost twice. In the street outside the tenement where she trades he shoots Sport in the belly before going inside to continue his righteous massacre. The pimp reappears in the hallway, alive and armed, and has to be gunned down again, as if to get it right. But Iris is saved, Betsy forgives Travis now that he=s a hero, and Travis survives. Or does he? Do they? Does any of it happen at all? Can such questions be asked of a work of fiction? In Taxi Driver the narrative viewpoint seems clear. The film opens and closes on Travis' brooding eyes. Intermittently he gives a running commentary in voice-over, which turns out to be the journal he keeps. Sometimes the screen shows things that appear to happen independently, without his knowledge. So these events seem to be 'real'. But they decrease in credibility. Travis sits in his taxi outside a building inside which a tender scene takes place between Iris and her pimp. And now Sport says: Come to me, baby, and he puts a record on the phonograph. He tells her: I'd like every man in the world to know what it is to be loved by you. Inadvertent humour can't get much bleaker. But whose joke is this? Travis buys a suitcaseful of artillery. He practises quick draws in the mirror. Sometimes he packs two guns, but he (as distinct from his reflection) is right-handed. Especially with his star weapon, a forty four magnum. In due course he uses it to shoot off some of the fingers of Iris' 'timekeeper'. Strangely, this has earlier and out of his hearing been described as a typical Mob punishment. Then, in reverse shot, we see the gun in Travis' left hand. He goes on to finish killing the pimp, the mobster and the timekeeper. And then himself - a death he has clearly intended or expected - except that now he=s all out of bullets. So he pretends. He points a finger at his own temple. It lets fall a single drop of blood. He gives a death=s head grin. His thumb works an invisible hammer. Bang, I'm dead.Afterwards he gets police commendations, glowing press reports and grateful notes in what looks like his own handwriting. He loses the scar where a bullet creased him in the neck He grows back his hair, which he'd shaved to a Mohican crest. Finally exalted to a realm above human love and desire, Travis can patronise Betsy, who wistfully seeks him out, but can't get to him now. He's gone through the looking glass. Taxi Driver is perhaps the most chilling representation of psychic death ever to reach a universal audience. The question is: what sort of representation? In a Steinberg cartoon the subject, pencil in hand,is shown completing the picture which is himself. That picture is another of those 'impossible' objects which is possible because there it is. The work of art has become its own creator.It's been said that a work of art goes about the world independently of its author's power to intend about it. In Taxi Driver it's as if the film itself has decided to dispense with the conventional markers that distinguish between what's 'really' happening and what's inside the hero's mind.Such a work enacts the idea that all events, including events 'in the real world' are events in the consciousness; may only be events in the consciousness. We create the world, as they say, from moment to moment as we go along. If our dreams are allegories of the way we experience this world, then by extension our waking perception may be the same; except that it has to adjust itself - from moment to moment as we go along.The movie screen, arena of the 'dream factory', is the obvious place to see this happening. So is the theatre. Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale is like a still, a tableau which suddenly comes to life out of a sort of Arcadian trance as in the Book of Genesis; and as in Genesis, with the touch of the serpent's tooth. It shows a man in torment because he's recreated the world as the hell in his own mind. A hell which he has to exorcise in blood. To understand Shakespeare's great work you could do worse than read it through the eyes of Taxi Driver.


                
What can you say about "Taxi Driver" that hasn't been said already? It's phenomenal. I'm not a fan of Scorsese's other directorial efforts, really--nor am I a big DeNiro fan--but everything about this film is absolutely, unquestionably RIGHT. So many people seem to be confused when they watch this movie: they either root for Travis Bickle when he finally loses his marbles, or they feel that "Taxi Driver" tries to justify racism and misogyny. I don't think there's any need to go to such extremes. Yes, there are elements of racism and misogyny here, but the film doesn't promote those attitudes. And as for Travis being the nominal "hero" of the film, I don't believe that this was Paul Schrader's intention, either. There ARE no heroes; ultimately, this is just the very grim story of a marginalized man who loses what little control he had to begin with. This is why "Taxi Driver" appeals to people, I believe, but it's also why the film is routinely misinterpreted. As Schrader has said, this is a film about alienation. "Taxi Driver" tells an interesting, engaging human story and that's what makes it great--not the social commentary, or what's viewed as such.


                
"Taxi Driver" is in a way one of the most timeless movies ever, inspired by "The Searchers" directed by John Ford. The acting, the music, the direction, the script and the editing are all close to perfect. If you want to see a film by Martin Scorsese, see "Taxi Driver" first - it will always will be his most interesting feature.Even if just a couple of movies have the right to be called Classics, "Taxi Driver" must be one of them.Robert De Niro is a fine actor and this is his best performance up to date. It is perhaps only "Taxi Driver" that has convinced me that Martin Scorsese is a great director and that Robert De Niro has a huge capacity as an actor. I think that the other things that I have seen by this couple is not even close to "Taxi Driver".Martin Scorsese´s masterpiece has turned to be one of the most referenced modern movies ever. "Taxi Driver" is not pathetic, but still it gives the viewer such strong emotions from start to end, simply because of the strong job by Scorsese (and his team) that he surely won't surpass.Rating: 10 of 10.


                
Robert DeNiro, (Travis Beckle) plays the role of a Viet-Nam veteran who is trying to find himself in the wild city of New York and drives a Taxi for a living. Travis witnesses all kinds of crimes against society and how a young girl named Jodie Foster, (Iris Steensma), is being used as a hooker and exploited by some very low life creatures. Travis becomes very committed to Iris and tries to straighten her life out. Travis decides he is going to do away with a certain politician and senator who is running for President. Cybill Shepherd, (Betsy) plays a great supporting role along with Peter Boyle, (Wizard). Robert DeNiro is so very young looking, I had to look twice in order to recognize him; there is lots of action, drama and some humor. Enjoy.


                
One of the most talked about films of all time is Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver, it has been pored over, analyzed, and dissected to within an inch of its life it would seem.Taxi Driver is something of a bad dream, it's like we are privy to the melt down of the man next door because Travis Bickle has a certain level of believability, and it's this fact that makes Taxi Driver such a riveting and skin crawling delight. We see New York from the confines of Travis's Taxi Cab, the grim and grime of a dead beat society is itching away at the viewer because of the claustrophobic nature of the viewpoint, we see thru Travis's eyes, his shifty tortured eyes. This grim urban play gains maximum impact from Bernard Herrmann's score, one moment we are listening to a jangly pornographic sounding jazz/blues fusion and then we get Travis accompanied by judder music, unstable judder music! Michael Chapman's cinematography is appropriate to the feel of the film, some how it feels off kilter to further emphasise the unease unfolding on the screen.The supporting cast are as impressive as they are memorable, Jodie Foster lays down a marker that she thankfully continued to improve upon, Cybil Shepherd gets to look pretty and convince as the intrigued but cold Betsy, whilst Harvey Keitel manages to get away with sleazy pimp portrayal by enthusing the character with menace without the histrionics.It's Robert DeNiro's show all the way tho, everything that has been said and written is true, he has the viewer firmly in his hand, from the portrayal of the uncomfortable loner at the start, right to the mohawk wearing crusader at the end, he scares and enthrals in equal measure. He is Travis, and no greater compliment I can pay his performance than to say that I feel I'm along for the ride with Travis, he has my undivided attention, always!One of the best films of the 70s. 10/10


                
I never watch young Robert De Niro until then. He is so cool. He acts a man, Travis, has a sense of justice, but he eats junk food and watches a pornographic film. He is inconsistent. Travis is taxi driver. He hates the world that he lives, but drives taxi. If I don't like the world, I works in my house, or office. Why does he work outside? Travis is a good man. He wants to change the world. In Taxi driver, Travis often sees a back seat in a mirror of taxi. Hitchcock likes to incorporate his sexual expression in his films. Peep is incorporate in Taxi Driver. Peep is doing gaze from a hall. I also like the music of the opening and ending. The same music is used.
Taxi Driver is a 1976 American psychological thriller film directed by Martin Scorsese and written by Paul Schrader. The film is set in New York City, soon after the Vietnam War. The film stars Robert De Niro and features Jodie Foster, Harvey Keitel, and Cybill Shepherd. The film was nominated for four Academy Awards, including Best Picture.In Martin Scorsese's classic 1970s drama, insomniac ex-Marine Travis Bickle works the nightshift, driving his cab throughout decaying mid- '70s New York City, wishing for a "real rain" to wash the "scum" off the neon-lit streets. Chronically alone, Travis cannot connect with anyone, not even with such other cabbies as blowhard Wizard. He becomes infatuated with vapid blonde presidential campaign worker Betsy, who agrees to a date and then spurns Travis when he cluelessly takes her to a porno movie. After an encounter with a malevolent fare (played by Scorsese), the increasingly paranoid Travis begins to condition (and arm) himself for his imagined destiny, a mission that mutates from assassinating Betsy's candidate, Charles Palatine, to violently "saving" teen hooker Iris from her pimp, Sport. Travis' bloodbath turns him into a media hero; but has it truly calmed his mind? Written by Paul Schrader, Taxi Driver is an homage to and reworking of cinematic influences, a study of individual psychosis, and an acute diagnosis of the latently violent, media-fixated Vietnam era. Scorsese and Schrader structure Travis' mission to save Iris as a film noir version of John Ford's late Western The Searchers (1956), aligning Travis with a mythology of American heroism while exposing that myth's obsessively violent underpinnings. Yet Travis' military record and assassination attempt, as well as Palatine's political platitudes, also ground Taxi Driver in its historical moment of American in the 1970s. Employing such techniques as Godardian jump cuts and ellipses, expressive camera moves and angles, and garish colors, all punctuated by Bernard Herrmann's eerie final score (finished the day he died), Scorsese presents a Manhattan skewed through Travis' point-of-view, where De Niro's now-famous "You talking' to me" improv becomes one more sign of Travis' madness. Shot during a New York summer heat wave and garbage strike, Taxi Driver got into trouble with the MPAA for its violence. Scorsese desaturated the color in the final shoot-out and got an R, and Taxi Driver surprised its unenthusiastic studio by becoming a box-office hit. Released in the Bicentennial year, after Vietnam, Watergate, and attention-getting attempts on President Ford's life, Taxi Driver's intense portrait of a man and a society unhinged spoke resonantly to the mid-'70s audience -- too resonantly in the case of attempted Reagan assassin and Foster fan John W. Hinckley. Taxi Driver went on to win the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, but it lost the Best Picture Oscar to the more comforting Rocky. Anchored by De Niro's disturbing embodiment of "God's lonely man," Taxi Driver remains a striking milestone of both Scorsese's career and 1970s Hollywood. In summary,Taxi Driver must-see film for movie lovers, this Martin Scorsese masterpiece is as hard-hitting as it is compelling, with Robert De Niro at his best.
Martin Scorsese is a director where I'm unsure whether I would love the picture or not as there are some from his work that I didn't enjoy as much as I thought I would. So I came into this thinking maybe it will be decent but nothing more. The film is most definitely excellent and so far my favorite film from him.The plot of Taxi Driver is a man, Travis Bickle, who decides to become a taxi driver and in this profession he sees the filth and waste of the city and this frustrates him deeply. Along the story, he encounters a beauty that stands out from the crowd and a young prostitute he, by chance, sees once in a while and becomes involved with. What held my interest the most is Travis' perspective of the world around him. Schrader has written a fantastic screenplay that keeps itself grounded and personal as we follow this man alone and we only see his understanding of the world, not anybody else's. The story does focus on areas like his romance with Betsy, and his relationship with Iris but it all adds to the point of his frustration. It's plot kept me hook throughout the whole ride and requires a bit of patience as the screenplay is more like the journey of a dark cab ride rather than the destination.This film is herald by many as his greatest film, I can surely say that this film is his best I have seen so far as I have not seen all that he has done. This film felt like a journey of not just Travis but New York as Scorsese wants us to be the passengers of Travis' journey. It clearly shows that Scorsese loves New York and knows how to capture it's beauty and it's filth. The film feels very personal to Scorsese, which is the reason of this film being so grounded as at some level, Travis is Scorsese in a way. There are many people who watch films and feel detached with the protagonist's intentions but I'm the type that follows them and accepts them regardless of their intentions and values. Yes, there are people out there who may watch this film and think Bickle is a little insane but I think he's the only man in the city who has a clear mind.Michael Chapman may be the cinematographer in this film but I felt that the film's image was more tamed by Scorsese rather than Chapman. Scorsese to me, feels like Terrence Malick when it comes to the cinematography as both seem to have a clear idea of what they want and how it should look, which is the reason why their films at times can be a little bit indulgent, not in a bad way. Taxi Driver captures a different side of New York that nobody ever wants to see. Even if the streets are lit by brightly colored neon, the place is still looks like a garbage landfill, and this is because Scorsese knows the area so well that it looks very convincing. I would still give props for Chapman as I think he still had a major contribution in some way.Bernard Herrmann is a legend. The man is responsible for many film scores that have become iconic and adored by many. Taxi Driver's score has this jazzy smooth quality to it that fits very well with the time period and the setting that the film has taken place. The saxophone gives this smooth sound but at the same time feels very sleazy, which fits with Travis' perspective of his surroundings. There are at times where it gets dark and a little crazy, especially when the score is building up and then crashes. Herrmann's work here may not be as iconic as his work on Psycho or Vertigo but great enough that other composers have taken inspiration from him, especially if the film's setting is in New York.The film is driven by DeNiro's performance, which I can definitely consider as one of his best. This is definitely different from his previous work in The Godfather Part II, which is more out there. In Taxi Driver, he plays it simply without any overacting, which is the reason why the whole film feels very smooth. I liked seeing De Niro playing roles like this where he isn't a gangster or a mobster but rather a regular guy. The two women in this film were casted excellently as they were very appropriate for their roles. Cybill Shepherd in this film is beautiful, she is radiant and elegant, and works well with De Niro. I was a little skeptical with Jodie Foster playing as a young prostitute as I have only seen her in strong roles like Silence of the Lambs and Inside Man but she really pulled it off here. Younger actors sometimes tend to overact but Foster kept it easy and light. Harvey Keitel was great but a little bit underused, same goes to Albert Brooks. The acting in this film is spectacular and will definitely be adored by those who like their film with easy-going acting.It contains simple acting gritty photography and excellent direction from Scorsese; making the screenplay come to life. The film overall is fantastic, just seeing New York in this light makes this definitely worth a watch.


                
Where do I begin when talking about Taxi Driver. In my opinion, the best movie ever created in cinema. Period.This was one of my first Scorsese films and it changed my life. He is one of a kind. I love the way he tells the story through the lens. He is the best storyteller with the camera. I love breaking down this film. The way he positions his cameras and the angles he uses the cameras is flawless! He was the first director to make me think about what's happening behind the camera than what's happening in front of it. Genius DirectorRobert De Niro is amazing in this film. His portrayal as a lonely human being is frightening. You love watching him on screen but at the same time, you want to look away but you can't. You want to know what's going to happen to this very disturbed character but you're afraid to see where this character is going to take you. De Niro deserves all the recognition for his work.A complete Masterpiece of Cinema! If I could give this movie a 11/10, I would. A must see for all film lovers!


                
Giving this movie more than just a quick look should be named a mistake already. Through all of things it covers such as the Political Campaign to Sport and his girls, are only a small thought in the true Character study of Travis (De Niro). Its not really a day in the life of someone who's crazy, but a life of hardship and loneliness that has been brought to this very point the viewer is witnessing. If you watch the movie for more than ten minutes or review and try to get a better understanding you'll notice different details about what the movie is actually trying to display. ** SPOILERS ** The movie starts off in New York City where we first see Travis applying to be a night shift cab driver. He claims to not be able to sleep at night and drives around. Through the movie we evaluate how lonesome and anti-social he is by how many times he fails to befriend or make conversations with others. Through messing up a relationship with a woman working at campaign office, and other faults such as a murderous man in his cab, a teen aged prostitute, and the "Scum" observed on the streets, Travis slides deeper into a disturbed mental state which causes him to become violent and stand up against what he's finds wrong through the film. He attempts to assassinate the presidential candidate through the movie that Betsy supports because like Sport (Harvey Keitel) to Iris (Jodie Foster), he is a man holding her back from being set free or being with him.**THE ENDING**If you've seen the movie you would be aware of the ending that almost donned the film an X rating.Iris is declared free and is sent back home to her family. (this is the only part of the ending we can actually call true)Ending 1: The Viewers misunderstood, but emotionally well ending.After the massacre Travis spends time healing in the hospital and is eventually released and named a Hero by the press. Iris's family give him thanks for rescuing her and being such a good person. Life returns to normal and he continues to drive his taxi, he picks up Betsy and a fare. Through confidence they speak and she is impressed by his actions, she asks how much and but he doesn't take her money. Travis is finally known and loved for protecting the girl and taking wrong doers off the streets. Accomplished. Driving off he views himself in the mirror, and a piercing noise dissuades his attention and his mirror gets moved trying to view something in the street. This ending could be called true by the possibility of a sequel in the works.Ending 2: The Satisfying and perfect character study ending.Through the film we watch Travis go from being a sort of normal guy just trying to get by, from the end he slips up and finds himself working between assassin and vigilante. We watch him kill the people holding Iris from living what would be a normal life, and see him being wounded in the process. As the police come in Travis his fingers to his head like a gun and you see when his head tilts back his eyes roll back. In film thats dignified as a characters death. Directly after the scene, we notice Travis's life has improved and he has been renown as a hero by the press, thanked by Iris's family, a good guy, and also confident to the woman he's been trying to get the entire movie. Travis finally has the satisfaction he's been looking for the whole time, but doesn't it seem like its happening rapidly together? In the film you have watched Travis's persona changing along with the character analysis. Knowing his goals the entire time you finally get to see them flourish, after the tone of the film changes entirely. To the Point where Travis tilts his head back, to where he adjusts his mirrors, your seeing his fantasy and fulfillment he was always wishing for. To be seen and noticed, as a hero or maybe even less. Travis is finding satisfaction in what isn't actually true, as his last dying thoughts. He doesn't notice something in the rear view mirror with a sharp noise, he vanishes from his sight because he isn't truly there. His life has ended and his fantasy has finished along with the film. As the movie is a character study for insanity this ending would be perfect because you see him from his good descent to a vigilante to his last dying thoughts of love and being noticed he dreamed of. It makes the movie beautiful and worth all of the hype just to see, his character as detailed and deformed as it is. I can watch it over and over and notice something else every time. The ending is haunting every time, no matter how you think about it because it leaves you with a 'what just happened'? If it means a sequel to find out what happened with fiction or reality, life or death for Travis. I Think i would rather keep the mystery
If only bad-ass cartoon characters like Batman and Spawn could muster  one-tenth of the psychotic rage Travis Bickle possesses. Bickle's cape is the Vietnam Marine jacket that he wears throughout the film.  The way "Bickle" is stenciled  on the back it might as well be a giant "S" or the insipid Bat logo that various actors have exhibited though a series of pointless films.  The whole film unspools like a dream that a Vietnam grunt could be envisioning while dying in a rice paddy on the other side of the world. (Oh, wait, that was Jacob's Ladder...) Travis is a gratingly rascist  and moralistic character and the black pimps and drag queens he regards with such contempt through his cab window could be stand-ins for the Vietcongs he couldn't quite vanquish when he had the chance.  His plan to assassinate the Presidential candidate is undertaken with the same ritualistic precision of a military mission.  For Bickle the war has not ended and he has simply transposed the conflict onto the streets of New York. His bipolar view of the world--people are either angels like Betsy or "scum sucking scum" like Sport--is eerily prophetic of America's current perception of world events. (You're either with us or you're with the terrorists)  When Travis wishes for  "a real rain that'll wash the scum off the streets" he sounds chillingly like John Ashcroft or, Dubya, or even Guiliani (who almost accomplished what Travis couldn't)  It's sobering to think that an outlook as disturbed and childishly naive as Travis' could morph into the mainstream point of view.  (POSSIBLE SPOILER) Current politics aside, the little coda at the end of the film, when Travis is back at his job, a reluctant hero among his fellow cabbies--albiet with a lingering soreness in his neck --has always mystified me.   Could it be that that last ride with Betsy, whom Travis merely glimpses at through the mirror, is in fact his out of body release into death as he sits amidst the bloodbath back in the hotel room? I think Scorsese strongly implies this when De Niro takes one last look at himself in the overhead mirror and suddenly his face disappears from view.  Notice the musical sting right when that happens.  It's utterly chilling; a depiction of death more unnerving than anything I've ever seen in another film.  (Or at least on par with the flash of white leader when a man shoots himself in Mean Streets.)  The film is timeless and it reflects meaningfully, like a looking glass, on each era we pass through.
