The movie starts off with a mystery man walking into a dingy cab company and applying for a job. Something's off about him, he's friendly on the surface but underneath it there's something stiff and cold. He mentioned the Marine Corp, did something in Vietnam break him? Has he seen too many tragedies, and this waxen face is the most he can muster? Does he see the hookers and pimps, the human slime wandering the streets, and question what he was fighting for? And what about those pills he keeps taking – is there some underlying mental condition? Then, driving around in his cab he sees a woman. He stalks her to her job at a Senator's campaign office, and at first we think there's going to be some sort of conflict here, but then the camera pulls in to focus on her – and she's just as waxen and artificial as he is. Both of them speak with bizarre dialogue, just two degrees off of normal. Eventually he walks in, and they start dating.Then, another twist – Senator Palpatine *ahem* Palantine gets into his cab one night. When the Senator asks what he cares about, he tries to explain the human vermin wandering the streets. You see fear in the Senator's eyes... but he responds with a greasy quote about working hard and changing the system.At this point I was intrigued by the movie. I wanted to see how these characters would interact, conflict with each other; I wanted to know why the Taxi Driver was slightly off, and why this woman seemed to mimic him. Was the violence eventually going to be about some political or moral principle? Or will it be an emotional, shattering break down like some sort of Shakespearean tragedy? Unfortunately, none of this came to pass. For some reason he takes the woman on a date to a... porno theatre? In between orgy scenes and Dutch dialogue, there's a microscopic view of sperm fertilizing an egg. Whatever. The girl is initially hesitant, but accedes to watch the film, only to storm out in disgust five minutes later. She then disappears until the ending of the film.When he gives up on calling her, he starts stalking a 12 year old prostitute. They go for coffee, and he tries to convince her to quit. She calls him a square.Then he buys a whole bunch of guns and builds a nifty spring-mounted holster for his arm.Then he talks to a Secret Service agent, then wanders off.There's a long winded conversation between him and another cab driver – okay, I missed this part because I was busy talking about how many unnecessary scenes there were in this 115 minute long movie – but the bits I did catch didn't seem that critical.Then we watch a love scene between the 12 year old prostitute and her pimp. It's romantic, and it goes on forever. We have no idea who his character is – he's just 'the pimp.' Then the Taxi Driver shows up planning to shoot Senator Palpatine, screws up and runs away. After that he goes and shoots the pimp, the hotel owner, and a Mafioso. He then tries to commit suicide (never giving the 12 year old the money he'd set aside for her in an earlier scene), but he's out of bullets. For five long, long minutes we watch the camera pan over the bloody scene.Then we find out that he survived, he's a hero, and the girl went back to his parents. He's back to driving a cab, hanging out with his old cab-driving buddies (who were never fleshed out) then the girlfriend from earlier in the movie asks for a ride. He drives her home, they don't talk, and he doesn't charge her for the fare. Now the movies over.This movie fills me with rage and confusion. None of the characters are fleshed out, most of them are unnecessary to what little story there is, it's completely unrealistic – not in an artistic 'suspension of disbelief' way, just a stupid way – and I can't discern any point to this movie. Why does he call the street people scum, yet go to watch porn movies every night? What's his fundamental problem? Is he fixed at the end of the movie, and if so, what's fixed about him? All of this build up of him becoming Rambo, only to shoot three guys – and even then, screw that up badly? What about the love scene between the pimp and the 12 year old? Why the politician? And for god's sake, why were there so many dragged out, unnecessary scenes where absolutely nothing happened? 'Open to Interpretation' means that you can use a film/novel/song as a platform to discuss feminism, politics, racism, violence, human nature, and anything else – but the art itself has a distinct strand to it. This movie does not. It's sort of like the late-era Beatles' songs where they just slapped together random words... only those were at least entertaining and contained emotion. This movie had none of that. The only emotion it successfully conveyed was alienation – because I'm sure as hell feeling alienated right now.Deep existential questions are troubling my soul – if such ugliness as this can exist, than does beauty even matter anymore? This film is so ugly, sad, and broken that compared to it the most vigorous celebration of youth, love, and beauty is nothing but whistling in the dark as the universe dissolves into entropy, a featureless room-temperature void...I don't know if I'll ever feel joy again. Even the blue soulful depths of melancholy are a sweet fruit which will forever be gone from my life. It's with my last act of will and human charity that I beseech you – if you love yourself, then please – Don't watch Taxi Driver!
So many have told us this is a great movie, if not one of the greatest. Why? At the beginning, we are introduced to a man, Travis Bickle. who is behaving in a kind of infantile way. We have no idea why. Is he new to the city? All we really ever learn is that he was in the Marines, honorably discharged, and he thinks New York City is filthy, disgusting, etc. Why? The cinematography actually makes the city look vibrant and dynamic. I was there, at the time, though not quite an adult yet, and never got the sense that it was a filthy, disgusting place, despite my parents' somewhat paranoid attitudes. Granted, I did not travel all over Manhattan, as a taxi driver might, but that just compels the viewer to ask why he is in New York in the first place, let alone driving a taxi there!When Iris talks about going to a commune in Vermont, he says that it's not the kind of place for him. What is? Yes, we understand he is "disturbed," but we are given no clue as to why, which creates a frustrating quality to this film. We get quite a bit of cozy music (which sometimes goes "dark") with the wonderful cinematography, and in general the city appears quite interesting, and not especially dangerous. Why weren't there several scenes of violent crime? Was prostitution only occurring in Manhattan at that time? There is a kind of self-contradictory quality to this film that irritates, and there is not even an attempt to resolve it. A glaring example of this is the long scene with Iris and her pimp; what are we meant to infer from it? It almost seems like Scorsese wants us to think that the "bad" New Yorkers aren't really that bad. If so, it contradicts the apparent point of the film. If not, why was it not cut out of the film?We do see some characters that represent the more "positive" side of New York, including the politician, Charles Palantine, and one of his campaign workers, Betsy. Does New York appear to them the way it does to Travis? For the most part, if they are concerned with someone who might do them harm, it is Travis, not the people he regards as "scum." This is where the movie could have gone, and it would have been consistent with society, especially the "white flight" of that era. We would see that less educated, more "ethnic," "white" people had become nearly paranoid with stories about fictions, such as the "black snipers of Newark," for example. We could then see the politician character fanning the flames of such fear, perhaps prompting Travis to do something violent. We could get flashbacks and find out that Travis sees Palantine as a surrogate father. Those kinds of scenes could provide some grounding (social and psychological) to this film. It would be a shocking twist for us to think that Palantine is taking Travis under his wing, only to find out that he is trying to use Travis to further his political ambitions, and at that point, with the cozy music turning "dark," an actual drama might just arise !I like the idea of the world as seen through the eyes of a troubled man, so I don't object to this approach, but the audience needs some idea of why that person is the way he is (and you can't put in scenes that don't include that character, such as the one with Iris and her pimp). As it stands, this is a confused film. It's like the cinematographer went ahead and made his film while the director was making a contrary one. The soundtrack seems like an attempt to bring the two together, but it doesn't work because we haven't been shown enough contrast between "good" and "bad" New York, and too much is seen from the perspective of a character who seems seriously disturbed and clearly paranoid, for some unknown reason. And astute viewer might assume that it may be about racial strife, if we consider the recent history, circa the mid 1970s. Perhaps Scorsese just took that for granted, but there are ways of making your ideas known with subtlety, and Scorsese was unwilling or unable to do that here, for whatever reason. I think of an unfinished Old Master portrait when I think of this film, only with the background finished rather than the head !
What Martin Scorsese did to Taxi Driver is what Hurricane Katrina did to New Orleans.There are 2 types of Scorsese movies. Great stories wrecked by Scorsese; like Casino, and awful movies made worse by Scorsese; like Aviator. So where does Taxi Driver fall? Right along side with Casino, an intriguing story and characters ruined by an incompetent Martin Scorsese. The story revolves around a man (Robert DeNiro) who takes a job as a taxi driver, and wants to get his life organized, finally does so when he meets a teen prostitute (Jodie Foster), and wants to help her regain her life.Robert DeNiro's performance and character he plays is definitely inspirational, along with his line "You talking to me?", which this movie is credited for starting.But even great stories with great actors can still fail miserably due to lousy presentation cause of a flimsy director, namely Martin Scorsese. He ruined Taxi Driver by making it dull, lame and impotent, as he did with his other films. Out of all the directors, like John Carpenter and George Lucas, they normally ruin masterpieces the second time around with remakes, special editions, and prequels/sequels. Scorsese wrecks masterpieces the first time around.The story alone is enough to warrant the movie a 7/10, but the awful directing renders Taxi Driver to 2.5/10. If directed by anyone except Martin Scorsese, then Taxi Driver had a better chance of winning best picture. But with Scorsese, Taxi Driver is thankful that the Razzies didn't appear until the early 1980's.But the character study and story are too much to ignore, and demands a remake without a movie wrecker like Martin Scorsese.
I did not like this movie and I will be happy if I never see it again. The ONLY bright spot was Travis saving the 12 year old prostitute and sending her back home to her parents but I have to say I found the rest of the movie very confusing. For example, for a man who thought the city was full of immorality and degenerates why did he think it was all right to spent his free time in X Rated theaters? And what made him think it was OK to take a girl he just met to a porn film? Also, what possessed him to cut his hair into a mohawk and why did it appear that he was going to kill the nominee for president when he ended up killing Iris's pimp? The only answers I was able to come up with was as a former Marine, he needed to validate himself once he re-entered society. Since the secret service were onto him he went for the next best thing and managed to save a young girl in the process. Thank God all that porn didn't cloud the inappropriateness of a 12 year old turning tricks!
I delayed for many, many years my watching of this film, and finally did so due to its reputation as a classic. I am not much of a Scorcese fan, and Taxi Driver merely reinforces that opinion. I found the movie to be boring and meandering. There were times when I wanted to just reach down DeNiro's throat and drag the words out; so inarticulate is his character (I don't blame the actor).The movie is relentlessly depressing, as the main character drives and walks through the seamy underbelly of society. And yet it is so boring that I was constantly looking at my watch, hoping it was close to being over.I gave three stars: one because it is the minimum, one for DeNiro's performance, and one for Foster's performance.Despite TD's hype, I cannot recommend it.


                
The cinephotography was superb, as was the editing. Continuity errors mar the film.The characters, a semi-literate disturbed ex-grunt, a troubled child hooker and a solipsistic shallow, preppy campaign aide do not grab the attention. Both Cybill Shepard and Jodie Foster to a very good job in limited roles. De Niro manages to combine violent, disturbed, repetitive, banal and boring all in one role.The scene changes are abrupt. The plot has chaotic jumps, not an arc of drama. Basically a waste of time unless you are into the lower end of imitation cine noir films.Ain't no Hitchcock.


                
on my list of BAD movies. This movie, of course as you might as well have seen is pretty high ranked in the IMDB top 250 and is also acclaimed by many critics, but I can tell you, this movie sucks. Mainly because of the good grades this movie got by critics and also from critics and I like De Niro and some of Scorsese's films (most of all GoodFellas) I taped this movie when it was on TV a few weeks ago. I started this movie thinking it would some kind of average or just above average movie, because I tend to not like some of those movies that are generally being enjoyed, like The Godfather, I think, even rated very high all the time it deserves a 6 or maybe 7 out of ten. But now getting to the movie, in my TV guide it got 4 out of four and the plot was outlined as, whacko Taxi Driver's life changes dramatically after a meet with someone. After the film starts you get some kind of average, what happpens in the life of a Taxi Diver, then he goes nuts (after 1 hour) and you think, YES, now it'll really begin. He buys guns and eventually even shoots a guy. And then evantually as before ... nothing, it goes on for another 20 minutes or 30 like that and then I just couldn't stand it no more. Nothing happens, this is JUST an average story about the pretty normal life of a man, that changes at a moment(I don't know  if this happened I didn't finish the movie), with average performances from the cast, without any thrills, chills, laughs, brutal scenes, touching moments and so on.......... Seen his good grade on IMDB makes me wanna give it a 1 out of 10, but I'll be nice, I'll give it what it deserves, a 3 out of 10.


                
I do not not mean it is a bad movie. It IS a great movie. It is like a poem, you can interpret it in any way you like. it is artistic and memorable. BUT I have seen art movies which keep you engaged. It is so deathly slow and boring that you SEE what is going with the character but you just don't care. it may be a great movie but...if you are hoping a plot, sorry. those who love this movie, have a stock line that you did not understand it. I UNDERSTOOD it, but there was always a better way to speak this movie. It is so slow that you may doze and wake again without missing anything. (but the end.....) it would be a classic in its time, but not now. a MUST see, but it is TOO OVERRATED.


                
This movie joins the likes of Dr. Strangelove, Citizen Kane, and 2001: A Space Odyssey . It's not clever at all and it's about nothing. Some mentally ill taxi driver boogies around at night - That's all. Most of the film is taken up by slow scenes, totally unrealistic dialogue and situations, and a totally unrealistic portrayal of New York, yet Taxi Driver is currently rated 8.4 on IMDb.There are two reasons for this: One is that wannabe gangsters will vote any film like this high, and the other is that people like Roger Ebert are the perfect example of a modern day Emperor's New Clothes. If the plot and script are nonsensical, they'll hail it a masterpiece and tell you that you are just too stupid to see the genius involved (for the record, 2001: A Space Odyssey doesn't have ANY story at all, but is still called "deep"). Those of us with an ounce of sanity are not happy sitting through a film that's about nothing (with the exception of a few scenes with Jodie Foster, who plays an underage prostitute) and has a pace slower than a tortoise on whiskey.The acting isn't bad, but the talent is wasted on a script as crap as this.I'd only recommend watching this to tick the 'seen it' box.


                
IF you're 30 minutes into this movie and find it boring, turn it off and read the spoiler, to save you the time. How the heck did it get 8.0+ rating? This is a classic? I find it banal boring - a first yr film student can do a better job - no offense to the students. The music was somewhat suspenseful. I figured something profound is going to happen that I had to watch it; I can't quit on this movie. By the end, instead of an standing ovation for this classic, I asked myself "WTF," I want my two hours back. Where are the artistic and creativity in this? By the way, I'm not here to tell anyone not to watch this movie.


                
Weekend at bernies is more intriguing than this movie


                
