"Taxi Driver" starts off with a beautiful and perfectly fitting score from composer, Bernard Hermann, as we see the blurred city of New York as the fast paced lights from cars and signs are distorted and put into slow motion. "Taxi Driver" is one of Martin Scorsese' finest achievements as he teams up with Robert De Niro. Travis Bickle (De Niro) is the title character. The acting as a whole is exceptional. Harvey Keitel has an extremely small part as a pimp named Sport, and he brings a forgettable character to center stage. Keitel is so good in this you wish you would get to see more from his character. Jodie Foster plays the prostitute under Sports rule. Iris, is 12 years old, and for a 14 year old actress (at the time), Foster deals with some heavy and extremely adult material, and she handles it incredibly well. Keitel and Foster have a scene together where Sport holds her and slowly dances with her as he whispers into her ear about how lucky he is to have a woman like her. It's an utterly repulsive scene. The look on his face mixed with the calm and safe look on the face of Iris, is pretty disgusting. It's extremely well acted even though it's a pretty quick and minor scene. In this one scene we see the type of control Sport has over the young, impressionable child that he abuses and takes advantage of. These are the kinds of things that set Travis Bickle off. The film is a classic that dissects the fallout of one mans loneliness and his thirst for acceptance, recognition and notice. The editing is very good, the direction is great, but it's carried by a magnificent script from Paul Schrader and a great lead performance. This probably stands as De Niro's second best work to "Raging Bull," and among the finest acting performances of all time. Travis Bickle is the self proclaimed, "God's lonely man." Bickle walks amongst the people on the filthy, crowded streets of New York City. Wherever he goes, he goes unnoticed; like a ghost meandering through life's morbid boredom of repetitiveness as each day endlessly runs into the next. Bickle suffers from an inability to sleep so he goes to the porno theaters after 12 hour shifts. His mind is constantly racing as he takes various forms of pills and abuses alcohol. The former Vietnam Veteran has a damaged psyche that continues to get worse and worse as the disgust for the lowlifes of New York eat away at his consciences. The first act of the films starts with a normal looking man, with a regular hair cut and regular job in an irregular city. We watch Bickle go through everyday routines and his work habit is the main focus to derive attention away from his bloodlust. We don't see much wrong with him other than some signs of frustration and restlessness. He decides that his body needs some fine tuning as he reverts back to his days as a Marine. He meets up with a gun dealer and buys three pistols and a .44 magnum. He's ready for war, and the table is set. The ending of the film is controversial for its vagueness and its inability to state a clear purpose of reality or fantasy. The film strongly suggests a dream-like state as we watch with a long running overhead shot (possibly signifying Bickle's departure from the world?) of the carnage left in Bickle's wake. Then there's the music of a dream inducing state at the end of the scene, which is the strongest hint towards a dream like state. What we do know is that Travis Bickle takes the lives of lowlifes, degenerates, and the scum of the earth. He's treated as the hero and glorified by the media for his actions. This is a slap in the face to the media for finding that a vigilante did the right thing because it was for a good cause: Kill 5 scumbags, save 1. The final scene of the film is also controversial. We see Betsy for the first time since their big fight and she's no longer disgusted with Travis. Now the media has changed her opinion of him too. Travis has reverted back to the same look he spouted in the first act of the film. He's quiet, reserved and humble. He looks harmless. As the ride home goes along we find out that Palantine has won the nomination. After, Travis drops Betsy off, he leaves without taking her money and with a smile on his face he gives her a simple, "So long." As Travis drives off, he menacingly looks back into the mirror, representing a problem still exists, then we fade back to the start of the film. With the symbolic scenes throughout the film depicting Bickle's brooding, boiling, rage within; symbolizing the fact that nothing has changed. The near death experience doesn't cure him. The accolades from the media and the recognition from everyday people doesn't make it any better. He's still ready for war.
***** SPOILERS *****How would anyone be able to relate to Travis Bickle ? He`s a freak show , a fantasist and a loner who watches porn films in cinemas with a cola in one hand and a candy bar in another and to all intents and purposes is an assassin and a stalker , but he also strikes a cord with any man who`s been angry and young and rejected . He`s an outsider that society has turned its back on : " Why won`t you talk to me " is the heartbreaking question every young angry man screams at the world when he`s very alone
Scorsese directs Paul Schrader`s low concept script on a shoestring budget - That`s not a criticism , quite the reverse because this leads to a hyper-realism and it`d be impossible to think that a major Hollywood studio would produce something like this nowadays where everything is about making money while playing it safe : A character study of a disturbed loner ? 12 year old prostitutes ? Vigilante executions ? Too controversial , not enough explosions , not enough CGI . If there`s a flaw in the screenplay it`s at the end where Travis wipes out the pimp business and becomes a hero which left me confused . Doesn`t society punish murderers even if they kill scum that use 12 year olds as prostitutes ? Even if he was cleared by the jury surely Travis would still have stood trial for murder ? but this is never referred to in the closing scenes , but I guess this is a comment on how society can quickly make a hero out of a villain and how a nobody can become the talk of the town , but still it seems to go against the grain of the script where we - Or at least the young males in the audience - recognise that an uncaring society is the villain where as Travis is the hero all along Despite the flawed ending of the screenplay ( Which is superb untill the last ten minutes ) this is still a movie masterpiece with Scorsese getting an acting tour de force from his cast . Jodie Foster as a child who sells her body on the streets of New York , a totally disturbing , brilliant performance , and DeNiro and Keitel in the same movie ! I`ve no idea if this is just hype but I heard all the stage schools in the USA were swamped at the time by applications from applicants in Compton , Hell`s Kitchen , South Central and The Bronx who`d seen DeNiro and Keitel in the " I`m hip " scene ( A scene that was totally adlibbed by the actors ) and decided that acting could be cool and macho after all . As I said I don`t know how true this is but the performances of these two actors has given a massive amount of credibility to the acting profession and it really is sad to see the DeNiro of today churn out so much garbage . This his greatest performance . I also rate it as Scorsese`s best movie As a footnote may I recommend to all the angry young men reading this review to track down the albums of Matt Johnson aka The The especially the mid 80s albums SOUL MINING  and INFECTED which have lyrics that could have been written by Travis himself . Matt is a great fan of Scorsese and it shows
It's a spiritual film, tracking Robert De Niro's 'Nam vet as he takes the wrong path towards cleaning New York's streets, minds and souls.


                
In a calculated exercise, I watched "Raging Bull" and "Taxi Driver" back to back today. Two classics, and two films generally recognized by critics and fans to be among the best of all time. Personally, I think Bull was the better showcase for both De Niro and director Scorsese as the four years between films allowed both to improve on their respective crafts. In terms of favorites, that might be a moot point, as both are darkly disturbing and violent films, with main characters that aren't particularly honorable, much less likable.Indeed, both characters, the fictional Travis Bickle and the real life Jake La Motta were haunted by personal demons that manifested as forms of mental illness. La Motta's brand of violence was legal inside the ring, what he carried into his personal life resulted in a lifetime of unintended consequences. The outcomes of fictional characters can be manipulated to suit the priority of the writer or director, so in the case of "Taxi Driver", the protagonist winds up as sort of a hero, at least to the parents of twelve year old hooker Iris. I'm not sure if the point of the film had anything to do with showing how one's life can turn on a second's notice or not. However when Bickle's assassination attempt on Palantine (Leonard Harris) was foiled, the succeeding events could have led to his own demise. Instead he's reborn, sort of. One could sequel the story after Betsy (Cybil Shepherd) gets a cab ride from Travis at the end of the picture, but it's probably better left to the viewer's imagination.A tiny detail caught my eye in both pictures today which I'm sure I would never have considered had I seen them days or weeks apart. In the carnage of the shootout scene, when the cops make their presence in the doorway of the rented room, Bickle puts a bloody finger to his head simulating a gunshot, and two drops of blood drip from his finger. Scorsese used the same device again in "Raging Bull", when Jake La Motta is badly bloodied in his final fight against Sugar Ray Robinson. As the boxer sags against the ring ropes, the camera focuses on the top rope a few inches away from La Motta's outstretched arm. Two drops of blood fall from the rope to the canvas to further intensify La Motta's defeat. At the time, I couldn't say why I found that to be so fascinating, but now I do.
The opening images of the yellow taxi cab moving slowly through clouds of steam, seems an authentic vision of the city as netherworld, a landscape of gaudy nightmares<U+0085> Travis himself is an unnerving combination of psychopath and naive innocent, a victim whose attempts to put the World to Rights produce yet more victims<U+0085> Like other troubled heroes of the era, Travis is an ex-Marine, working nights as a New York taxi driver, observing with increasing disgust the human flotsam that comes into his cab<U+0085> His attempts at human contact are a failure<U+0085> An icy political worker whom he takes on a date (Cybil Shepherd) is repelled by his taste of porno films<U+0085> He tries to rescue Iris, a teenage hooker (Jodie Foster), but increasingly his mind is under tension, and, prevented in his attempt to assassinate a Presidential candidate, he murders Iris' pimp Sport (Harvey Keitel) and a client in an orgy of what he intends a redemptive violence<U+0085> Scorsese's film: a study of urban alienation, and a restless, fluid camera contributed to a view of New York as hell on earth, and mirrored the protagonist's growing insanity<U+0085>
My Rating : 9/10Robert De Niro plays Travis Bickle, a Vietnam vet trying to return to normalcy in New York City. He suffers from insomnia and gets work as a late night cabby. These are the hours when the city is at its worse. Bickle takes it upon himself to do something about the scum-ridden city. De Niro brings the brilliant script of Paul Schader to life, guided by the genius of Scorsese's camera and the fantastic supporting cast comprised of Cybill Shepard, Peter Boyle, Albert Brooks, Harvey Keitel and a young Jodie Foster. Scorsese does a wonderful job, but the script is so powerful and the acting superb that he could have just turned on and pointed the camera in the right direction and let the story unfold.


                
It's interesting that there are so many American movies related to the Vietnam war (directly or indirectly); and most of them are considered all-time classic movies.
Looks like that war left a big hole in the American history (and it was a big inspirational point for the Hollywoodian movies).
This one's a classy movie where all the action happens in a city of filth; and the soundtrack fits pretty good!
De Niro alone practically made the whole movie... almost!
We also see young Jodie Foster's first important performance in her career and she fits perfectly here! Oh... also I barely recognized Harvey Keitel!


                
'Taxi Driver' remains one of the most fascinating and intriguing movies ever made in the history of cinema.Critics have stated it to be Scorsese's best and perhaps it's one of the most quoted films. Paul Schrader's riveting screenplay is very detailed and layered. It's very much based on his own experience which is probably why it's so rich in atmosphere and depth and obviously, not to forget, the memorable lines. Scorsese does a commendable job bringing it to screen. Aweseome director that he is, he puts it all together wonderfully. The fluid narration, the haunting score (comprised mostly of some fantastic saxophone pieces), the brilliant lighting, solid cinematography etc work together effectively. Moreover, Scorsese definitely captures the rawness and stark reality of the harsh street life that Bickle witnesses every night. Robert De Niro delivers one of his most memorable performances as Travis Bickle. His understated portrayal of the title character is still a much talked about discussion. While this is clearly De Niro's film, he is aptly supported by a stunning Cybill Shepherd, Albert Brooks, Peter Boyle and Jodie Foster.
The presence of Robert De Niro--in the title role--is the most important reason why this work is an outstanding motion picture. He completely becomes--Travis Bickle--a socio/psycho-path. An incredible achievement....and De Niros finest hour. He refused to break character during filming---and made some of his co-players --a little nervous on set. Martin Scorsese uses some wonderfully inventive direction---but his usual sloppiness --in relation to continuity--is there for all to see. Writer Paul Schraver wrote a great script---very New York --but universal in its examination of loneliness. However--it is the gradual disintegration of Bickle--into madness, that is the rock solid viewing foundation of this Classic movie experience.


                
Working for the first time with misanthropic screenwriter Paul Schrader, and using Alfred Hitchcock's music score maker extraordinaire Bernard Hermann, Martin Scorsese crafted one of the bleakest and most memorable films about alienation with 1976's "Taxi Driver". Here we have the lonely cab driver Travis Bickle cruising the sleaziest streets in New York City, looking for love in all the wrong places, plotting his way to leave his mark with violence, and looking for redemption in the rescue of a child prostitute named Iris (a very young Jodie Foster).Like the finest films from its decade, "Taxi Driver" is a intimate character-driven film haunted by the ghosts of Vietnam and Nixon-era politics that stained the psyche of the American people, especially those disenfranchised in the urban sectors. It's also a classic Scorsese story, nihilistic to the extreme, and containing what is still one of the most graphic and shocking bloodbaths when Travis Bickle finally goes on his rampage. The end result is quite ironic, and leaves a bitter halo imprinted on the viewer's mind.By all accounts, this is a landmark film: one that heralded the first masterpiece from a director who would go on to a long and fruitful career, presented Robert DeNiro as a formidable headliner, and proclaimed Jodie Foster a serious actress. It's also one of the most controversial movies ever made, as it is the only film that can claim to have inspired an attempted presidential assassination when John Hinkle tried to shoot Ronald Reagan to impress Jodie Foster whom he became obsessed with after seeing this film, which is not too far removed from Travis Bickle's aborted attempt to kill a Senator to impress Cybil Shepherd's character. All of this makes "Taxi Driver" a film classic, albeit a very dark one that will always have many people crying foul.
I actually saw this for the first time this morning. I couldn't sleep and it was on at 4am. It was every bit as good as I was led to believe.Comparing the two, I cannot see how this lost to Rocky at the Academy Awards. Scorsese fans will also agree that he deserved a directing award for this film. While De Niro and Foster were fantastic, I feel that Cybill Shepherd was equally good, and should have been recognized for her performance. This film won 18 awards out of 27 nominations. Basically only the Academy didn't get on the bandwagon. But, in all those nominations, none for Sheperd. I really think that was wrong.Great film, and I will watch it again and again.


                
It's a beautiful and violent story that talk about a lonely man, Travis Bickle,and the city where he lives in.Driving by night, the protagonist meets the strangest people in the world. He hates New York because he think it's a dirty city with bad people. But at the end of the film he saves a 12 years old prostitute and kill her pimps, so he becomes a hero. The story, that is written by Paul Schrader, is full of violence, and bad words but at the same time it is also sad and a bit romantic. Robert De Niro is fantastic and Bernard Herrmann's music is good too. Taxi driver is one of the most beautiful films in the history of the cinema.


                
It's interesting to read the reviews by people who really disliked this film. Can we dislike virtually every character in a movie and yet keep watching it, even respect it? I don't have a definitive answer to this, but I was captivated by this film. I get this feeling every time I see films that glorify organized crime. DeNiro's performance so surpasses any doubt as to the content of this film that I couldn't take my eyes off him. Contrary to the critics, his every expression reveals his skill as an actor. While his motivations are confusing, they are his motives. He is an unbalanced war survivor who can't tolerate the cesspool the world has become. I mean, "What did I fight for?" His social skills are wasted. When he goes on the date, it's one of the most uncomfortable moments I've ever spent in a theater. The efforts to save a small part of his world is met with disdain and resistance. So he flips out and decides to clean it up himself. He is suspicious of politicians and authority figures. He becomes his own man and takes matters into his own hands. The key thing is that he is true to himself and even though he is a frightening figure, he gets his way. I guess most think he should have been killed. That's not a valid criticism. See this, but be prepared to keep changing positions in your seat.


                
The 'Taxi Driver' (1976) written by Paul Schrader, directed by the master Martin Scorsese and played by Robert De Niro as its lead protagonist is considered a cinematic spectacle that diagnoses the 'scums' and 'filthness' of a consolidating liberalism hegemony that was at its embryonic stage during the 1970s. The principle protagonist is Travis ( played by Robert De Niro) who is a marine and a Vietnam war veteran who works as a Taxi driver in New York. Travis is a weird figure who seems mentally unstable and an introvert detached from society.Travis apparently suffers from insomnia and shows profound introvert characteristics with vague gazes and looks diverted while interacting with his taxi drivers colleagues. He lives alone far away from his parents, he doesn't follow politics or arts(music) and seems disaffected from societal efforts of betterment and improvement. For Him evil reigns and even politicians cannot fix it. This normative and boring life of Travis is reinvigorated with purpose and value as he come across a young preadolescence blond prostitute named Iris ( Jodie Foster) who is being pimped by gangsters. He goes into gun battle with the gangsters and saves Iris while he himself later recovers from coma to proceeds with his work as a taxi driver.The 'Taxi Driver' narrates a story of an ailing society and the inaction and docility in the face of this danger that's engulfing this modern society of ours. The messiah is a 'white man' (Travis) who once shoots in the face a Black robber. De Niro and Jodie Foster act superb and are captivating to the audience. The 'Taxi driver' is more relevant now than in the 1970s, when society is growing dis-affectionate to politics or Hope of an' alternative world' in the face of a naturalized neo-liberal ideology that disregards and undermines 'the will of the people' as the fictitious presidential candidate in the Film puts correctly. The ripples that the 'Taxi driver' initiated in the 'cinema of Politics' will reverberate throughout time.


                
Martin Scorsese made a really good movie. The whole movie has a really amazing sound track. All sorts of background noises make it really seem like your in NYC. Robert De Niro was amazing in his role as this insomniac. Jodie foster plays a young girl and she is excellent in her performance. She plays a very important role in the movie but she only spends a couple minutes in it. When he says his inner thoughts in his head it gets pretty creepy. The whole movie is basically a spiral into darkness. The camera work is amazing. There are all sorts of weird camera techniques like the top down view after he fights the gangsters. Top down isn't a normal view and it makes you think he died like if he was having a out of body experience. There is also extensive use of mirrors to show De Niro's eyes while he's in the cab and in other places too. The music track is also really good. The saxophone is used very often but sometimes there is darker music alluding to possible darker things happening. The movie finishes on the brighter side with him turning out as a hero instead of an assassin. The movie is very good but it can be very disturbing.
Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro) is a disturbed ex-Marine Vietnam vet. He's suffering from insomnia, and spends his nights driving a cab. He's sexually perverted, and obsessed with Betsy (Cybill Shepherd). On top of it all, he wants to save 12 year old prostitute Iris (Jodie Foster).DeNiro delivered one of the iconic performances of all times. Travis Bickle is one of the standards by which all performances are judged. Martin Scorsese is making a disturbing movie. It can be hard to watch at times. Scorsese uses his camera to maximum effect. As Bickle's mind drift from his co-workers, Scorsese's camera drift into the antacid fizzling in his glass. The grittiness of '70s NY is all there. Jodie Foster is shocking. Trying to watch Bickle can be a very trying experience. It isn't an easy movie. But it is a masterpiece.


                
I watched "Taxi Driver" for the first time tonight. It was mesmerising. I've never seen such a flawless and beautiful film. From the gritty portrayal of life in '70s New York to the slow breakdown of a lonely man bitter towards a society he sees allowing so much wrong, the film did not misplace a step. Taxi Driver was as perfect as a film will ever be.DeNiro was a joy to watch throughout. I will never forget the scene where he walks through the crowded city streets of New York, a look of pain and disconnection etched upon his face. He is Travis, no question about it.


                
"Taxi driver" is not only one the greatest films of the Seventies, it's also the best Scorsese & De Niro production.A Vietnam veteran, now a New York taxi driver, lives in a nightmarish loneliness. The meeting with a baby prostitute and the will of rescuing her will give him a new aim.The movie is dramatic and passionate. It's a story of an anti-hero who wants to save another anti-heroin. Also when he tries to court another woman (Cybill Shepherd) the result is a complete disaster (look at the scenes...!), it's impossible for him to enter a "normal" world. There's an anguish sense through all the movie, underlined by Bernard Herrman score. Definitely "Taxi driver" is the momentum of the "nouvelle vague" in Hollywood movies. Actually the Seventies were the only time when big studios really allowed independent directors to do their own films. Now these two worlds are more separated than before.This film won the "Palme d'or" at Cannes Film festival in 1976, and brought chance to Scorsese, Jodie Foster, Harvey Keitel and (of course) Robert De Niro -the same year he made Bernardo Bertolucci's "Novecento", the year before he won an Oscar for "The Godfather part II".


                
Being an insomniac I developed a habit of watching movies and reading things online. And have always been a great fan of Martin Scorsese and there was no doubt of skipping any movie of Robert De Niro.This film will always be on my "MYSWBYD" List


                
I love this film. Its so well written and Jodie Foster is extraordinary. Makes me want to go bald to new York .


                
Everyone knows that Robert De Niro is one of the all time greatest actors... at least in my opinion. The story line follows a man who is in the world running through it like a lone wolf. Everyone has quoted "You talkin to me?" even if they don't realize where its coming from. The interesting perspective of the movie makes it that much better. For a man that can not sustain any relationships with a single human being he makes the audience love him.


                
Taxi Driver is one of the best classic movies there is. The film follows the life of a friendless, lonely veteran named Travis Bickle, played by the gorgeous Robert de Niro. He lives in a shabby apartment in New York and decides to be a taxi driver at night because of his insomnia. He gets sick of the filth and scums of New York, and he wants to get rid of them. Here, we also see the 12-year-old Jodie Foster portraying a prostitute named Lily. Travis badly wants to save her from prostitution. Jodie was simply great in this movie. The atmosphere and story are dark. We see, not a glamorous and wonderful New York, but a filthy and dangerous world. The main character is very complex and interesting and De Niro nailed his performance. He's perfect in every scene.The climax is shocking and terrifying, and the ending is thought-provoking.I usually do not watch films from this genre but this one, I like.


                
Taxi Driver is just an amazing movie, there is so many small things in the way that it is made that is just superb. DeNiro is absolutely fantastic in the lead role of this flick. The movie does a great job to show how lonely and isolated the main character feels. The flow of the movie is really nature and works really well. The ending was a bit confusing, but interesting as there are so many different takes about what the real meaning behind it is. Ultimately this was a great film, directed masterfully by Scorsese.


                
For the longest time, I had never seen Taxi Driver. As a film fan, it is a huge disgrace to have never seen it. Now I can say I have and what a film it is. Taxi Driver is a film that has stuck with long after I watched it. Taxi Driver is a weird film. A film that takes it's time to tell it's story. Not only is it a masterclass in how a story should be told however it is also a remarkable character film as well and that is all because of De Niro's iconic performance. From his mannerisms, to his dialogue, everything that he does is incredibly breathtaking to watch and sets the standard for how a character performance should. Also a stand out is Jodie Foster. Foster, now a movie star in her own right, makes great use of the screen time she is given. She is not in it much, however she is memorable as well as a young hooker trying to break free of the life she lives. This is a great film. Filled with memorable lines and screens. Taxi Driver is the standard for crime dramas and will be remember forever as perfect film.


                
Taxi Driver is an overall boring movie. In most of its running time it's depressing, uninteresting and hard to follow. Still, I can see that it succeeds in doing what I think Scorsese wanted, to portray mental sickness. There is no doubt that he is a good director, and that a movie can be well done even without much entertainment value.It must be said though that there was some interesting parts. The ending was good, and I think Foster did quite well as Iris. All the craziness of de Niro just made me depressed, but that's what made a great impression on me. Even though I just wanted to turn it off most of the time, the story about Travis depressed me so much that I just couldn't stop thinking about it for a long time. I couldn't sleep for many hours, just twisting my mind with thoughts of his miserable life. And that's the brilliant part. By showing us how hard life can be on someone, de Niro and Scorsese made a difference. Maybe some people got a different view on the "scum" of society by watching this movie, and that is an accomplishment. All in all, even though I never wanna see it again, this is a good, but not great, movie. 7/10
