Godfather Two is Coppola's movie---and he had no instincts for the mafia. The Godfather author, Mario Puzo, objected to having Michael kill his own brother, but finally gave in to keep his share of the Hollywood millions.Godfather Two has lightweights as heavies: the drunken New York mob guy and Hyman Roth can't compare to Barzini, Sollozo, and the other heavyweight bad guys of the original Godfather written by Puzo.Godfather Two loses the atmosphere of the mob while it meanders lengthily into Cuba.The main point that makes Godfather Two inferior is that it does not contain a single sympathetic character.The endless scenes in the Lake Tahoe home of Michael's are tiresome, dreary after a while, and lack interest as compared to the original Puzo story.This movie shows a deterioration from the original, just as the mob has deteriorated in recent years.Coppola had no right to think he could write his own Godfather, and his inferiority to Puzo when it comes to dealing with the mob shows up here in technicolor.Meanwhile, poor Mario Puzo watched his story being degraded by the instinctless Coppola, objected at first, and then gave in. Pathetic.The only scenes that actually ring true here are from the original Puzo book (the earlier life of Vito Corleone).The contrast between the dreary Coppola script of Godfather Two and its dreary characters is brought home strongly by the final (flashback) scene where Sonny Corleone and the others are around the table. As soon as Sonny appears, everything comes to life.
As a huge fan of the original Godfather, I have never understood all the hoopla about this film. A great continuation of the story? The only sequel to be better than the original? No way, on both counts - not by a long shot.First of all, The Godfather is a movie that truly needs no sequel. When that door closes on Kay at the end, that's it - an entire cycle has played out: power has been passed on, the new guard has superseded the old, evil has corrupted goodness and the sins of the father have come back to feast upon the sons. It is a perfect story, complete in itself and suggestive of all that is to come. Anything you could add would only be elaboration, nothing genuinely new.  As such, there's nothing - not one single thing - which happens in The Godfather Part II that is not either already implied in the first movie or at least could be predicted by knowing the first movie. Therefore, the story just doesn't feel fresh; it feels more like a "standard" sequel - that is, one done just for the money, to capitalize on the series while it was hot. (The true greatest sequel of all time, of course, is The Empire Strikes Back - superceding the original in so many ways and on so many levels it's unbelievable.)Now, I'll concede there's an awful lot of artistry on display in this movie - the acting is all great, the cinematography and production design, etc. It certainly doesn't have the *look* of a quickie re-hash. And you can tell that considerable time and effort has gone into the story and in the structuring of the movie. Which makes its failure all the more troubling to watch. First of all, the cross-cutting between the two time periods (Vito Corleone in the early part of the century and Michael in the late '50s) just DOES NOT WORK.  I'll challenge anybody on this point; if you think it's a good idea, you're just WRONG! I can half see what Coppola had in mind here, but it's just annoying. First off, the two sequences are not equally weighted - we see far more of the "modern day" Michael segment - and so the Vito scenes come to feel more like an intrusion, a break up of the momentum of the real movie, rather than as a legitimate sequence in its own right. And frankly, it's not a legitimate sequence anyway - it's far too bathed in quaintness and romanticism, it never truly takes Vito to task for the life he has chosen; in fact, it doesn't even give us a good sense of why he has chosen that life. Except for the brief murder scenes, it mostly portrays Vito as a hero - a Robin Hood of the people - and does not give a clear picture of the ruthlessness and cold-bloodedness he would have needed to build up his empire. (For a good portrait of this side of the young Vito, read the chapter in the original Godfather book by Mario Puzo which focuses upon his rise to power. Compare this sequence to the movie's in order to see just how much Coppola has omitted and how much he has romanticized what he's kept.)  Coppola wants to save all his rage and condemnation for Michael, you see - almost as if the Corleone crime family was kind of a Mom and Pop store started by the old man in the good old days, and was great and wonderful until the young whippersnapper came in with all of his newfangled ways and started screwing everything up. If Michael's soul is shown as corroded by the end of the movie, why is Vito not assessed in the same harsh way? After all, if not for him, his son would never have been put in this position in the first place. Curiously, Michael's attempts to "go legitimate" are portrayed as the real horror here, which is certainly an interesting idea, but I think this is a theme much better developed in The Godfather Part III, where the agent of legitimacy becomes the Church (the Vatican), making for a much richer and headier mix. Here, Michael's mainly trying to buy into resorts and casinos in Cuba. How interesting is that?Finally, this picture moves sooooo slowly and takes so much time to tell its story (er, stories) that it becomes sleep-inducing. Not enough of import happens here for the story to take as long as it does. In short, The Godfather Part II is a film with an inflated sense of its own importance; the wonder is that it has suckered so many millions of people into buying into it. The Godfather is a movie which truly needs no sequel, but if you feel compelled to see one, rent Part III and skip over this tired and pretentious mess.


                
The Godfather II is not nearly as good as Godfather I, even tho some intelligence and good acting went in.  After the Godfather I, and Michael's evolution is complete, who needs a sequel about unsavory characters so much? The Godfather I, led by Vito and Sonny, had elements that provided for great entertainment and made you less bothered by the evil and sleaze (temporarily).  Michael pales as an imposing figure next to Vito, and altho Al Pacino is a good actor, I just get tired of watching Michael too much--I was even getting a little tired of him at the end of Godfather I.  In other words, I think the disadvantage sequels have of becoming-tiresome subject matter are more present, not less, here.  The end of Godfather II, with Michael staring out morosely into the water from a chair, symbolizes the decadence of the story and the corrupt characters, especially Michael himself.  I think more toward a pathetic character than a tragic one, despite some of the events he had to endure.   And what is the point of Kay's back and forth moral concerns if she is staying with him?   And wasn't that "abortion" blowup scene (natch, male child) so moving?  Not to me.The main story here is somewhat convoluted and disorganized, so when the flashbacks are inserted the confusion gets worse.  We have sordid characters (Hyman Roth etc.) who do not particularly entertain me on a movie screen, and the depressing figures of Fredo (geez, isn't he such a compelling character) and Connie.  This is a precursor to a lot of post mid-70s movies in which the plot is overcomplicated and not crisp and the characters sleazy and unappealing--in movies like this, I would like the characters to be less dwelled on and the action to rule.On the other hand, there is reason to be somewhat interested in the development of Vito and the flashbacks of the family.  Robert DeNiro does a good job as Vito, and the screenplay is thoughtful, but ultimately the main story dominates.  Yes, it is true, modern movies are less uplifting than ones preceding the mid-60s, but in spite of the many elements that some people complain about--violence, corruption, sex, pomposity, ridiculously overdone and confusing special effects--there are often some redeeming or uplifting features.  Certainly none here, and this film is depressing and sometimes boring, in spite of some good individual scenes and substance here and there to the story and characters.  To each his own--I can see why some people like this movie more than I do, but I really do not think it belongs on a pedestal either.


                
This second part was projected after a short pause of 30 min. If the movie is the longest and I never felt it dull, it's the weakest of the trilogy in my opinion.The 60's trip into the Cuban revolution was too far away from the italo-American roots of the family. Maybe the drive of Michael Corleone to build his empire makes him too cold? But it was a pleasure to see Al playing with his mentor (Lee Strasberg) and watch their complicity.The great moment of this movie was the story of the Don played by De Niro. He speaks little but when he said something, you'd better listen. The life of immigrants in little Italia around 1900 was very well depicted. Except those flashbacks, it's really about the criminal life thus putting aside the family content which is the heart of those movies. Happily, there's a part III.


                
I have an earlier review of this movie posted somewhere on this site in which I pretty much deconstruct it and its status as a "classic sequel" and even "a great movie." A handful of great scenes populate it, to be sure, and a spate of fine performances (particularly a toweringly great one from Pacino), but nothing that coheres into greatness - particularly as it's at the service of a turgid and convoluted plot.All of which I more or less stand by - at least as it befits my own taste and predilections. But I recently had some insight into why this sequel may be so well-respected: in its very dourness and lack of fire, it paints the unremittingly grim portrait of Mafia life that many apparently felt was missing from the first Godfather. I recently showed that movie to a group of my friends who had never seen it before (amazing in this day and age, no?) and they all enjoyed it - but, to a man, they felt that it definitely glorified and mythologized the violence it showed and the lifestyle it portrayed. Personally, I have a hard time seeing this - and, pay attention, because I believe here lies the discrepancy between the people who love the sequel and those who don't. On the most simplistic level, if you feel the first film glorifies the Mob - and feel at least slightly cheated because of it - you will most likely have an appreciation for the second film. If you feel, like I do, that the first movie sucks you into associating and sympathizing (hell, even *loving*!) these characters, but that the violence brings everything all back home and reminds you the evil and corruption which undergirds their way of life - then the second movie, though having perhaps some interesting elaborations upon this theme, offers nothing genuinely new. And is, therefore - despite all the evident care and superb craft involved - kind of a waste of time.But, since the violence and worldview depicted in The Godfather is such a polarizing issue, I suppose it was a good idea that Francis Coppola decided to have another go at it, ramming down his point for all those who didn't get it the first time: "The Mob is BAD, it CORRUPTS YOUR SOUL, and NO GOOD CAN COME OF IT!" These are good points to be made, and perhaps I shouldn't be so quick to dismiss them. I had just thought, previously, that . . . well, they're obvious (or should be, anyway - and anyone to whom they're not obvious is probably beyond all hope) and that the director had already made them once. Clearly, not everyone feels The Godfather makes those points cogently enough (as my friend says about the end of the first movie: "Sure, Michael is cold, ruthless and lies to his wife - but DAMN, he's just the *man*!"). For those people, The Godfather Part II exists, and that's fine. I'll never speak ill of the movie again.Except for those flashback scenes - those are still terrible! Either they should form a completely different movie unto themselves, or they should be cut out entirely (watching the second film as part of "The Godfather Saga", where these flashbacks have been excised, is infinitely more rewarding to me). I still don't know what function they serve - if anything, they seem a throwback to the preciousness and romanticism of the first film, except far worse, in my opinion. But no one seems to agree with me, so I'll stop beating the tune on that one . . .But as long as I'm here and have got this movie in my sights for a second time (and am inclined to dwell on its strengths rather than its faults), let me just expand upon what I said earlier about the acting: the film is a veritable master's class in great acting, coming in all shapes and varieties. The coiled intensity of Pacino is complemented by an equally quiet yet forceful turn by Robert Duvall as Tom Hagen (whose work in both Godfathers is some of the greatest, yet most unsung, in cinema history). Lee Strasberg does wonderful things with the Hyman Roth character, adding new layers and shadings in every scene, and his soliloquy to Michael about Moe Greene is as dead-on perfect as anything can be in this world. Similarly, Michael Gazzo takes a seemingly annoying and one-note character (Pentangeli) and works in so much depth and humanity, that at the end he's one of your favorite people in the entire Godfather story (doubly amazing, since he didn't have any automatic goodwill from the audience by being a carryover from the first film). The quiet scene between he and Duvall near the end is, in some ways, the most shocking, cold-hearted and violent of the whole series - and not one weapon is drawn, the two speaking in pleasantries the entire time, barely above a murmur. This, folks, is great acting - as well as sophisticated writing, all topped off by a director who has total confidence in the audience to get it, without his having to exaggerate or accentuate a thing. This is, simply, peerless moviemaking.Such peerlessness exists, for me, in doses rather than all the way through in The Godfather Part II. But to extrapolate from this that the film is somehow worthless is a mistake - one I must apologize for. Though I still stand by my assessment that, for me anyway, the second Godfather is largely "unnecessary", I am more aware and sympathetic to the larger purpose it serves for a good deal of the audience. And, necessary or not, it still has on show some absolutely top-notch cinema acting, writing and directing. Maybe it, unlike the first one, is an offer I *can* refuse, but having once accepted it, I'm there for the duration.


                
This must be one of the most overrated movies of all time. I saw it when it first came out, and then again a couple days ago. Unlike Godfather I, almost nothing was memorable from the first viewing of this movie. It evaporates into instant oblivion, never to rise again. It's a slow, boring study of an obsessive, boring, violent man. Many of the lesser characters are even more uninteresting. And for this it's highly rated? The attention given to the incidents in Cuba seem to be an attempt to add something lively to the movie, but just go to show how little there is to the main story. Bright, patriot son can't break away, starts slow, downward spiral, and ends up alone, friendless and depressed. And this is a great movie?
