OK. Let's get real. The Godfather is beyond excellent in every single way. I'm not giving comments on The Godfather, because it would be almost blasphemy. Nevertheless, I expected much more on part II. Personally, I didn't like it. Here's the deal: the story was way too slow paced. Nothing really happened. Only the hit on Michael's house, and the build up for young Vito's story was what makes you interested. The rest is just anti-climatic and dull. The dialogs weren't as quotable or stand alone as in the first. I thought as a sad imitation of the real thing.Al Pacino's performance was absolutely superb. The problem wasn't that. The whole character was what failed. In the first, we get the glimpse of a warm man, but gets cold when is needed. A man who thinks before he talks. In this one, we see a man who is cold and heartless every single time you see him. He no longer has the eminence that Vito Corleone once had. The previous Don was eminent and even though he could scare the hell out of you with his stare, you respected and looked up to him. Now, his son is just pure evil. And that doesn't make sense. In the book, it's clear that Michael is the living image of his father. So, what happened? Him killing Fredo was completely useless. Even if he did betray him, there was no need to have him whacked. A Don just doesn't kill anyone from his own family (not "the Family", the real one). I know, Michael did kill Carlo, but let's remember he was not really family, just an in-law, and he did deserve what was coming. Another thing I personally hated was what happened to Connie. As you will see in the third, she radically changes from the naive Don's daughter to... Sorry, wrong movie. Anyway, all the other aspects, (filmmaking, score, performances, photography)were indeed flawless. It's interesting. You can perfectly notice Coppola's anatomy for each "Godfather". You start with a prologue, then a religious ceremony and/or a party afterward, the plot then starts and a pivotal point is a hit on the Don. The rest is a slow, yet properly thought vengeance that ends with a gigantic and operatic blood bath. However, for part II, it wasn't's that operatic or with the same effect than part I. It was anti-climatic, and pretty disappointing.Another flaw I found was that the story doesn't really stick to the book. One key aspect in the film didn't even appear in Mario Puzo's novel: Vito Corleone never returned to Sicily. The name of the Don who had his family killed doesn't even matter. Still, the scene prominently explains Don Tomassino's condition from the first.Now, don't get me wrong. I'm a die hard fan of "The Godfather". I consider it to be the best movie ever (and the best novel ever, too). But part II just doesn't do it for me.
In the movies, sequels have always been difficult. The franchise pictures of the twenties and thirties were always careful to repeat cast and basic formula without reopening story lines that had already run their course. While the following decades saw the rise of the TV series, the screen sequel became almost unknown. Today the fad of numbered sequels, ubiquitous in the eighties, has now become synonymous with unspeakable badness. That tradition was started, quite innocently, by this 1974 follow-up to The Godfather.Being a drama, The Godfather Part II's biggest asset is probably in retaining the sublime cast that made the original so powerful. Al Pacino picks up exactly where he left off a few years previously, retreating further into passive steeliness, suppressing all emotions except the occasional burst of anger. John Cazale has a somewhat expanded role, getting to show off a more impressive acting range and making Fredo seem sympathetic in his weakness. Welcome returns are also made by Diane Keaton, Robert Duvall and Talia Shire. However the greatest turn is that of newcomer Robert De Niro. De Niro gives a credible presentation of an up-and-coming mobster and proud family man, whilst cleverly working in mannerisms of Marlon Brando's middle-aged Don in The Godfather. It's still only a small demonstration of De Niro's talents however.Perhaps an even more important factor is the return of producer-director Francis Ford Coppola. Coppola demonstrates again his ability to focus drama, going to lengths to show us only what is important. Take, as one example out of many, the scene where Pacino and Lee Strasberg first meet. Roth's wife greets Pacino, and bustles in and out of the scene once or twice to utter a few lines, but watch the way Coppola keeps her fluttering about in the foreground, often with her back to us, framed from the shoulder down so we never see her face. Coppola allows her to appear for reasons of logic, but as she's not a character we need to remember, he doesn't allow us to connect with her visually. This is really intelligent filmmaking.But The Godfather Part II is more than ever about stunning imagery. With a bigger budget, vaster sets and hordes of extras, Coppola shows an impressive ability to create thriving tableaux of crowds and street scenes, repeatedly using horizontal scans to move us through an environment, showing off a hundred tiny instances of real life that really make us believe in the recreation of a bygone era. This is especially true in the young Vito flashbacks, which thanks to the cinematography of Gordon Willis and the production design team lead by Dean Tavoularis, have a wonderful sepia-toned look to them. It's intriguing how Coppola also tends to keep his camera further back from the action in the those scenes, giving us the impression of something we are looking in on rather than something we are in the midst of.And yet this concentration on the visual has perhaps been taken a little too far. There are too many rather blatant bits of symbolism, such as the business of the dividing up of the Cuba-cake, which reminds me of some kind of twee history textbook illustration. This inconsequential prop gets several amount of close-ups, and even several references in the dialogue, everything but a flashing subtitle saying "They're carving up Cuba – geddit?" But instead of looking clever it just seems silly to have Hyman Roth going on about his stupid cake. And what's more, there are too many references to the best ideas in The Godfather – the dark Lake Tahoe office where Michael does his dealings: the murderous little montage at the end – all of which serve little purpose other than sly winks to those who are familiar with the earlier picture. None of these motifs is executed as effectively as they were first time round, and so really they look almost like poor copycats by some lesser filmmakers. The Godfather Part II is in many ways a decent work, but compared to its illustrious predecessor it is lukewarm; a flawed attempt to rekindle some of the old magic. In fact, it is just what we have come to associate with the movie sequel.


                
"The Godfather: Part II" hit theatres a couple of years after the first film and made history by becoming the first sequel to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. Today, it is routinely listed alongside the original as one of the best American films of all time.The story picks up a few years after the end of the first film. Michael is firmly established as the head of the family and has moved to Nevada where he is edging the family towards legitimacy. However, when he is beset by betrayals he systematically sets about dealing with the betrayers mercilessly. There is also a second story thread (told in flashback) that traces the early years of Vito Corleone and his introduction to mob life.The film clocks in at a hefty 200 minutes. Unlike the first film, though, I couldn't really get caught up in either of the parallel stories so the film seemed to drag quite a bit. I didn't find the Vito storyline particularly compelling and the Michael storyline is little more than a convoluted extension of part one. These stories were meant to be compared but I don't feel that the director or the editor really constructed the film optimally for this purpose. Nevertheless, the film still has a classic scene or two, though it's nowhere near as consistent as the first film.Most of the actors whose characters survived the first film reprised their roles here. Returnees Al Pacino & Talia Shire each landed Oscar nominations and so did newcomers Michael V. Gazzo & Lee Strasberg. However, the only actor to take home an Oscar statuette was Robert De Niro for his portrayal of the young Vito Corleone. Personally, I think that Pacino gave the best performance of the film.Francis Ford Coppola won an Oscar for his direction but I feel that the first film was a better effort. From a visual standpoint the film is attractive, though, and the Nino Rota score was justly rewarded with an Oscar.Ultimately, I don't feel that "The Godfather: Part II" lives up to its pedigree. I've watched it a few times, so I'd say that I've given it a fair shake. That being said, I realize that I'm in the vast minority here so it must be a personal thing. As far as I'm concerned, "Chinatown" deserves the Best Picture Oscar that went to this film.


                
He direction is also amazing, Francis Ford Coppola even does a better job than he did in The Godfather, and Apocalypse Now. The visual effects are so much better than the amazing one's in the original Godfather. One of the best films ever, a must see. Flawless.
Millions of people worldwide suffer from insomnia, that is difficulty in sleeping. However, Coppola, the genius filmmaker who brought us Apocalypse Now and The Godfather has utilized his mastery of the human psychology to also brought us the definitive cure for insomnia: The Godfather 2. This is a film specially designed to adjust to the human brainwaves in such a way to induce in a profound sleepiness.Running at the monumental length of 200 minutes, with a convoluted mess of a story, made up of flashbacks, a few strong emotional moments and tons of other very boring moments, with one of the most boring scores ever made (please, that little "Italian" noise in the background surely is boring!, this film surely has made happy millions of people suffering from insomnia.Coppola has made a masterwork of cinema: instead of using films to provoke emotions he managed to created an audio-visual experience that cuts the brain off and enables it to fall into sleep. Truly a work that deserves the Nobel Prize of Medicine. Bravo Coppola!Highly recommended if you have insomnia!


                
No American filmmaker has had a more disappointing trajectory to his film career than Francis Ford Coppola. To have directed four of the most influential films of the 70's (the first two "Godfather" films, "The Conversation," and "Apocalypse Now") and then to spend the last two decades churning out one stinky product after another ("Peggy Sue Got Married," "Bram Stoker's Dracula", the third "Godfather") earns Coppola my award for Most Promising Director Who Most Miserably Failed at Establishing Himself as an Important Figure of American Cinema. But before "Jack" there was "The Godfather." While I feel the whole "Godfather" trilogy has been lauded into oblivion and is somewhat overrated, who am I to argue with the majority? People think these are great movies, and they've certainly implanted themselves permanently in our cultural consciousness.And don't get me wrong: these films have moments of greatness (at least the first two installments do). But I think "The Conversation" and "Apocalypse Now" are ultimately more interesting films, and I think Coppola stretched himself more artistically in those two films than he did in the entire "Godfather" trilogy combined.Of the trilogy, the first film is by far the best. It shows Coppola's flair for being able to craft a story with extreme mainstream appeal while staying faithful to his artistic vision. "The Godfather" doesn't look or sound quite like any gangster film before it, with it's muddy lighting and sound. It's also much more ambiguous morally than the usual Hollywood gangster film, at least any produced up to that point. The line between crime and justice is blurred sometimes beyond distinction, and the Corleone family at times acts with more honor (in its own way) than the institutions charged with upholding freedom, justice and morality. In this way, "The Godfather" offered a scathing critique of the foundations on which America as a country was built.Coppola, however, drives this point into the ground over the course of three films. There's really not much more to say after the first film (it's already apparent that Michael Corleone's style of rule is different from his father's, his coldness and ruthlessness necessitated by a changing time), but we have to sit through a nearly 3 1/2 hour second installment that does nothing but reiterate this point again and again. Part II at least is saved by the back story of Vito Corleone (played by Marlon Brando in Part I and Robert De Niro in Part II), and that story alone keeps Part II afloat. But Part III is wholly unnecessary and mars the whole enterprise, turning the franchise into the stuff of parody and camp.Al Pacino is the glue that holds the trilogy together, though his character really isn't as complex as a first viewing would have you believe. The major conflict facing him is resolved in the first film, and the second and third films give him nothing to do but replay what are essentially the same scenes over and over again.Other standouts in the cast include Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton and Talia Shire (who alone makes the third chapter worth watching).Obviously a must see for cinema buffs, or even casual fans, but don't feel you have to label this trilogy as great just because of the reputation that precedes it.Grade: Part I: A Part II: B Part III: C-


                
I do not like The Godfather Part II as well as the original, if only because the shift in focus from the subtle machinery of the Corleone family business to the historically inspired (Kefauver hearings, collapse of the Batista regime in Cuba) episodes shortchanges the elegant simplicity of the first film.  We have already witnessed Michael's incredible transformation from "civilian" war hero into hard-as-steel overboss in the original, and this makes his character less interesting to me.  I do not wish to suggest that Part II is not a good film.  On the contrary, the intercutting of the Vito Corleone story with Michael's trials, troubles, and challenges gorgeously punctuates the importance of family tradition so crucial to the film's thematic fabric.


                
This movie, coming after the first, is a change of pace. The micheal segments of the film are more politcal, strategic, and focused on the sematics of the mafia than the previous film, and because of this it loses its charm from the last film. Aswell as this, because of how uncaring and heartless micheal is, its hard to attach to him as a character, the character isnt interesting enough in other ways to be likeable to me. the main aspect which saves the film is the vito corleone flashbacks, these segments are great insight into vitos past, with great acting from robert de niro, honestly if this was the main part of the film, this would easily be better than pt 1. The ending atleast is nicely thought provoking, and makes you wonder what happened to micheal, but the rest of the micheal segments arent amazing. Pt 1 be better indeed


                
It was not as much as the first part. I was eagerly waiting for any twist in the film but it does not. A little disappointment for me as it was made a sequel to great film. Good screenplay and actors done well.


                
I used to think this film was great, but then I grew up. Greater sophistication means greater appreciation for the majestic perfection of the original. Unfortunately, it also means the glaring faults of this flick are all the more obvious with each viewing. This film contrasts the rising nationwide fame and influence of Michael Corleone, a more cold-blooded version of his brilliant father Don Vito, with the early life of Don Vito and the beginnings of the Corleone crime family. Problem is, even though Robert De Niro's portrayal of Vito is brilliant, to be honest, we don't care. The current situation in late 1950's Las Vegas is more interesting and faster paced, making the retro turn-of-the-century scenes anti-climactic and an unwelcome break in the real action. More flaws abound. An assassination attempt against Michael is blamed on two different parties at once, and we are left wondering which one Michael really thinks betrayed him. When Michael finally tells Fredo, we are left wondering if he's telling the truth, when I think we're supposed to be fully aware at that point. Michael always knows a lot more than we do, and that's a problem. Hyman Roth could have been a great movie villain, but nothing he does or says in this movie makes any real sense. Again, his motives are murky, and he knows more than we do. Is he motivated by revenge for Michael's killing of Moe Greene? or by greed? we're never sure. His health is so bad, we might believe he should retire, but why he doesn't is left unclear. There are several major choices made by characters in this movie that I didn't buy. One by Michael, one by Fredo, one by Kay. Of them all, I'm most inclined to buy Fredo's, but even then, the flick doesn't explain it properly. At the end of this flick, as a result of Michael's choice, Connie should have a very emotional reaction, similar to her final scene in the first film, but Coppola, inexplicably and unfairly, robs her of that. The film ends before we can see it. I think there was a constant tug-of-war between Coppola and Puzo that resulted in these issues. The first flick was a direct adaptation of the book, but there was no book this time around. The purpose of this flick, which it accomplishes to a certain degree, is to show Don Vito building a family and a life in America, and his cold-blooded heir Michael destroying it. If the plot threads had made more sense, this could have been a great film.


                
Breathtaking in its scope and tragic grandeur...worth it !!


                
To me and probably to many other people The Godfather Part II is more of a continuation than sequel to The Godfather. Just look at the IMDb rating and you'll see I'm not the only one who feels this way. To me it as good as the first.


                
This movie is way to be good to be labelled a sequel to The Godfather . Rather it is more of a companion piece to the original


                
The original Godfather is a brilliant work. It is in a sense a voyeuristic delight, allowing us to see the mafia from the inside - we become part of the family. It single-handedly change the world's view of organized crime, and created a cast of sympathetic characters, none of whom have a shred of common morality. It was the highest grossing movie of its time and Brando created a cultural icon whose influence resonates as strong today as it did in 1972.As extraordinary an achievement as this is, Part II is even better. It easily receives my nod as the best picture ever made. I have seen it at least 20 times, and each time its 200 minutes fly by.The movie uses flashbacks to brilliantly weave two tales. The main story is the reign of Michael Corleone as the world's most powerful criminal. Now reaping the benefits of legalized gambling in Las Vegas, Michael is an evident billionaire with an iron fist on a world of treachery.Behind this, Director Francis Ford Coppola spins the tale of the rise of Michael's father, Vito, to the center of the New York mafia. It is these scenes that make the film a work of art. Without spoiling, I will simply say the Robert DeNiro as the young Vito is the best acting performance of all time, a role for which he won a richly deserved Oscar.The screenplay is full of delicious little underworld nuggets ("Keep your friends close .....", "I don't want to kill everyone, just my enemies"), while it blows a dense, twisted plot past you at a dizzying and merciless pace. The cinematography is depressing and atmospheric. The score continues in the eerie role of its predecessor, foretelling death and evil.All of this makes the movie great and infinitely watchable. But it's what's deeper inside this film ... what it is really about ... that is its true genius.


                
I simply will not be suckered into all the hype surrounding a movie with no plot and as slow as turtle soup.  I know this movie is a "classic," but so are Vlasic pickles--and that does not mean they are any less sour.  Now, the Robert Deniro segments are nice, but so is "Once Upon A Time In America." Along with "Annie Hall" (and I love Woody Allen films) & "Shakespear In Love," we see how the best movies for their respective years do not always win the little gold statue.  I guess that is all I have to say (besides why did Brando have to die so soon in the trilogy/).


                
The Godfather Part II is an overall better experience than Part I mainly because of Robert De Niro's charismatic presence in the flashback scenes. Otherwise, the film has several unresolved twists and forced situations, which keep lingering even after it ends. Michael (Pacino) is almost a psychic man who can read tiny almost invisible cues and understands what is in the future from mere observation of other's interactions. He plans ahead of everyone double his age, and removes hurdles from his path often before they are exposed. With the help of Tom (Duvall) he plans murders and defamation (senator in the brothel) and evades legal committees with unusual ease and adeptness which seemed pretty unreal. Same goes for Vito's first murder, it was rather coincidental that Fanucci's family was absent on that day, and Vito's gunshot noise was exactly timed to be masked by the firecrackers, even when Fanucci clearly saw his assassin and could have counter attacked if the shooting was late by seconds. Or when Vito murders Ciccio, how his knife travels across the ribs, and how can he escape so easily from Ciccio's own house with a wounded gunman on the back of his car.The movie lacks reality in several places, but there are some touching scenes like the flashback with the brothers during the end, or how baby Sonny cries on the rug that his father robbed for the first time. Or when Vito thanks his employer and refuses the gifts and comes back home to his wife after getting fired, and of course the strong sepia tone all over, which make this film stand out from the rest.But I am sure, real life gangsters should not be so lucky as Michael or Vito Corleone were in this film.
"I don't feel I have to wipe everybody out. Just my enemies." So says Michael Corleone (AL PACINO) in THE GODFATHER: PART II.Pacino plays the part with somber seriousness that becomes a bit one dimensional by the time the film is midway over. Nor is the story as compelling as the first Godfather film. But you have to hand it to director Coppola, he keeps the viewer glued to the screen even when the pauses between dialog is a bit longer than needed. (No wonder the film is so long!!). And with the risk of being politically incorrect, you can almost smell the garlic in every scene, so realistic are the accents and the background flavor of the entire film.So many plot developments are almost throwaways because the screenplay seems to be deliberately ambiguous about certain plot elements. And yet, the film has a certain holding power and all of the performances are more than competent. Especially poignant--and chilling--is the scene where Fredo's fishing expedition takes place with stormy looking clouds setting the eerie scene to perfection as the expected murder takes place.With murderous intentions just around the corner in practically every scene, it's a fascinating film to watch, especially since the murders themselves are so deftly handled by the actors involved. DIANE KEATON is especially convincing in the final confrontation with Pacino.I don't think GODFATHER II compares favorably to the original film with Brando, particularly since it's not always successful in telling two stories--the one involving the young Vito (ROBERT DeNIRO) and the present story--but it still packs a wallop when it gets to the intense moments. The double strand of stories doesn't always mesh well, a weakness of structure that hurts the film. Despite this major flaw, it's a superior piece of film-making.


                
Very similar to The Godfather - long (even longer than part 1) and oh so slow. It's just not my cup of tea at all. I don't find the story all that interesting - various criminal masterminds trying to wrestle power off each other.The only thing that makes this movie OK is the performances of Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. It really is a tour de force from both of them. Al Pacino's character, Michael Corleone, is a nasty piece of work. He tries to emulate his father Vito Corleone, but he is mistrusting and has an evil streak. He's prepared to cut off, in fact kill, close family, and will not be satisfied until he gets his way. Al Pacino plays it brilliantly.Robert De Niro, playing the young Vito Corleone, makes a great contrast. More relaxed, friendly, but also prepared to commit crime and kill to forward the interests of his family. But you can't help but feel he has a warm heart.Great performances like this aren't enough to turn a 3 hour plus dull storyline into a great movie though. I still got bored.
But the 3 hours and 22 minutes is still worth it for Al Pacino, cinematography, and the final scene.
I dont care fgfuidvfd fd9fsiugfpp8 fdigfsodgf 8isgybio gigfyusg8ifogs iuf7gdgf d89fgig fds idgugfyu g


                
RELEASED IN 1974 and directed by Francis Ford Coppola, "The Godfather: Part II" is part sequel and part flashback to the first film with the main story focusing on Michael (Al Pacino) in the late 50s as the stalwart Corleone son who has taken over as 'Godfather' with events taking place at Lake Tahoe, Miami, New York City, Havana (during the Cuban Revolution), and a congressional committee in Washington DC. The flashbacks concern Vito Corleone as a kid in Sicily and his arrival to Ellis Island with the story focusing on Vito's life in New York City when he was in his mid-to-late 20s (Robert De Niro) where he cleverly and boldly establishes himself as the formidable new Don.MAIN CAST: Robert Duvall plays the adopted lawyer son, Tom, while John Cazale appears as the weakest Corleone son, Fredo. Diane Keaton returns as Michael's wife, who tries to put out of her mind her husband's shady business with Talia Shire reprising the role of Corleone sister, Connie.The good news is that the flashbacks pertaining to Vito (De Niro) are good, starting with the shocking opening scenes. The saga of Michael (Pacino), by contrast, is relatively dull, particularly the first half, which mostly involves overlong scenes of talky drama. Michael's story simply lacks the energy and highlight-every-15-minutes of the prior film. Moreover, Pacino is thoroughly one-note solemn as Michael, lacking the character's interesting story arc in the first installment and the dimension of the third. I'm not blaming Pacino, as he simply played the role as written and does it well. I'm just saying that he's not a very captivating character, particularly compared to Brando or De Niro as Vito. He's just too one-dimensional and therefore uninteresting. Thankfully, things perk up in the second half culminating with an explosive showdown between Michael and Kay, which had to happen in light of the climatic scene of the previous movie.The moral of the story rings loud and clear: Choosing the life of organized crime will result in a grim life of constant heartache and premature death all around you. Life's hard enough without taking that shady route.Bottom line: This is a worthwhile crime drama with some highlights, but IMHO it's not in the same league as the first movie in overall entertainment. It's good for what it is, but it's overrated by people who can't see beyond nostalgia-tinged glasses. If you're a fan of the first film it's almost mandatory that you watch this one; just don't expect the same dynamic greatness. I know it's sacrilege to say this, but Part II is on par with Part III in tone and quality, although I personally give Part III the edge in all-around entertainment value.THE FILM RUNS 3 hours & 22 minutes (overlong) and was shot in Sicily & Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Italy; the New York City area; Lake Tahoe, California; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; Acireale, Catania; Las Vegas; and Washington DC. WRITERS: Coppola & Mario Puzo.GRADE: B


                
The movie is great from a story perspective, it has great characters and acting, it's decent in execution but not perfect and it has a great score with a good length which adds sadly only to the mediocre pacing.While everything is crafted well, some flaws still exist.One being the child actors performance. His mother is shot in front of him and his facial expressions would make him seem like a facially catatonic schizophrenic. Not a single tear. Born psychopath? Despite him being portrayed as a person with heart for his loved ones, even if he has to go cliché godfather on Alfredo... Ludonarrative dissonance by accident. The prequel part is an average execution at best, with some really cheap text explaining what should have been shown instead of what they kept in it to drag unnecessary scenery and ambiance. A lot of deleted scene worthy material. You could cut time a big amount by not stretching so many moments unnecessarily and instead give me an actual reason to connect to Michael in his early years. The useless time jumping instead going proper with the development in a timeline, because it doesn't matter for understanding the story any way it's presented, so why not just cut to the chase and save the jumpery and just properly go from start to finish? Oh yeah, because people think it makes for some actual understanding of the actions in the present if you blend in the past. Sadly watching the past first and then the present would have had given 1 to 1 the same understanding to the viewer. Also the endless burials and festival scenes. Side character scenes where no one gives a crap 5 secs later, because the effect, the reason the next scene has to be fueled with, with the action of the prior, is not always reasonable to even been shot. Especially so many scenes in the time they show Vito raising Michael. Vito having no job wasn't the reason to become what he did, the reason to bring the streets don down in COMBINATION of needing to care for Michael is a solid reason which could have been boiled down to a more efficient scene. It's draggy and in the good moments. Michael's bodyguard trying to kill Hyman Roth, but he is failing as the regime soldiers march in at the wrong moment. Instead the director decides to shoot the scene so fast you don't know if Hyman AND the bodyguard are dead or just the bodyguard. Instead you anticipate the next scene where it's explained by Michael saying Hyman survived. And it's always happening like that. Not to mention, yes, this tries to be mature as possible but seriously. All the empty threats of striking at the right moment etc, and failing miserably with such cringe worthy scenes such as hyman's assassination... give me a break. Whenever the movie tried a climax, it either dragged it, broke it or failed at it, even if it's intentional, it's not satisfactory. What the movie was best at: good actors, with good dialogue, good acting and good presentation. What it failed at: pacing, climaxes, proper resolutions (best one actually was when it was an abortion and not a stillbirth) and often more than not, some clichés here and there with cringe worthy acting like with the character of Don Fanucci.


                
Perhaps I just didn't pay enough attention while watching this second installment, but I though there was a lot lacking in this movie compared to the first Godfather. There were some good scenes and a few great lines, but as a whole there was not a lot contained in this story.I liked the flashback at the end that showed how Michael has isolated himself from the rest of the family; it was a fitting cap to the events leading up to it. But otherwise I thought the story lacked direction. I got that Hyman Roth was an enemy, but the nature of his relationship with Michael and the Corleone empire was unclear to me. The plot as a whole for Michael's story line was just too hard to follow, and maybe that's because I just didn't do a good job watching it, but I paid pretty close attention the whole time and it still lost me at several points.Vito's story line was more interesting to watch, and I actually would have preferred if the whole movie had centered on his rise to power in New York. DeNiro was well cast as the young Vito, though I don't know that he deserved an Oscar for his performance. I'm not sure if there was supposed to be a parallel between Michael's and Vito's stories, but if there was I couldn't see it. As seen in the first movie, Michael cares about keeping the family together in a very different way than Vito did, but I didn't see a lot of that here.Overall though, it moved pretty slow and wasn't great to watch. Going back and reading the quotes page, there were scenes, lines, and characters that I had no memory of. There was just a different feel created between this and the first movie, which I did not like. Obviously a lot of people did because it's almost as highly touted as the original, but the characters just didn't seem as smart in this one. People like Fredo, Pentangeli, and even Hyman Roth brought the IQ down even for the more clever and ruthless characters like Michael and Tom Hagen.It's not bad, it was just disappointing and makes me not want to see Part III. If you haven't seen this yet, I would think of this like a knock-off TV show to the original Godfather. It's the same world and has a lot of the same elements, but the two are loosely connected to the point that this second installment feels almost like a reboot that came out 20 years later as a sort of tribute to the original. Overall Rating: 7.2/10.
I know that there has to be some justice in this life, so everyone will pay for their sins and crimes someday. I shudder when I think what will happen to these folks for killing the "Godfather" franchise. "Part III" is a shame of a movie, but NOTHING compared to what this piece of garbage is. The other two movies acknowledged that killing or hurting people was a conscious choice that was painfully taken; in this one it is as if violence was fun and part of life. There are so many wrong things about this film it is useless to count them. What a disgrace of a movie. This doesn't even qualify as "so bad it is good". This is merely "so bad it is bad". 7/10.


                
Al Capone gives a whole different interpretation as the new Godfather. A good adult film to enjoy. Approximated the perfect length. With Al Capone we all learn the lesson which his father taught him. "My father taught me many things. Keep your friends close but keep your enemies closer" It seems that even the Xfiles used this lesson. Robert Duvall as the family lawyer becomes the "family legal lion." In this movie, the fictional history of Al Capone's father's rise as a mafioso is depicted. With this film and its predecessor, The Godfather, we are taught that crime does pay. In fact, it pays well for those who are very smart, very cunning, very rich, and very powerful -- otherwise you die. The music is similar to that of the Godfather. Where Marlon Brando was more of a loving man, Al Capone's godfather portrayal is one of of rigid ruthlessness. However, the ruthlessness is necessary for survival of the family's power.


                
