When using superlatives with this show it is totally fair. This show does something all other movies, shows, etc cannot do: it can safely apply any genre and still function as a deep and very entertaining show. As everybody episode goes by the show only becomes more addictive. It taps into almost every aspect of life. Every emotion is shown; love, hate, forgiveness, triumph and the list goes on and on. In fact this show depicts life the most realistically. The strangeness and peculiarity of the many themes perfectly displays the confusion in life and how it affects us. The show displays confusion in the clearest way making it almost impossible not to some how relate to the characters in the show. Not to mention also the series ends on one finest note you will ever see not just satisfying the viewer but taking the show to a level far and above anything else I have ever seen before. This show does the impossible twice over.


                
I started watching this show cause it was on cable HBO on-demand a few months ago. I always heard good things about it. Plus I figured HBO has provided me with some of my favorite shows in the past few years (Entourage, The Sapranos, True Blood) so this should be pretty good.The show came out while I was in college, where we had no cable since I lived on campus but my friends and stuff that went home on the weekends raved about this show.So needless to say I gave it a try. I was hooked<U+0085>every month HBO on demand would give us 7 new episodes and I would watch them all within the first 3 days.4 months later I was up to the first half of season 4. Finishing those episodes pretty fast I went online and started watching the second half and all of season 5 online cause I could not stop, I was SO hooked.I just finished watching the final episode<U+0085> WOW.This show came full circle and ended so perfectly. Watching all 5 seasons, I was moved. The final 8 minutes I watched 4 times cause it was done so well, I was moved<U+0085> I lost a best friend of mine a year ago to a tragic accident. I think about her every day. Death has always scared me, its my biggest fear and watching this show sometimes made me go nuts with all the analyzing of death and life but I still watched and sometimes it made me feel better and gave me some perspective on the subject.I really related a lot to the character of Nate. He reminds me of me in a lot of ways and I liked Clair also but towards the end of the series I fully understood each character, their pain, their lives, everything<U+0085> I have family and friends just like them, we all do.This show really captures life. The bad and the good<U+0085> and the really bad<U+0085>and the moments in between.I am 26 years old, and I don't think their will ever be another show like this on TV ever again. I am even a little bit sad that I wont be keeping tabs on the Fisher family and their friends ever again now that the show is over."Everyone, Everything, Everywhere, ends" and so did Six Feet Under.Thank you to the writers, producers, director, and actors for making this important show about life and death. It helped me in some ways with my own views on death and life<U+0085>Thank you.


                
It took me six months to watch the last season of Six Feet Under...because I couldn't bear for it to end. Finally, my ex-husband, who'd seen it, volunteered to watch the last show with me so I could get on with grieving its loss...knowing I'd never see these characters (I mean people) again, their incredible lovely, funky, quirky, unpredictable, moving, funny, loving interactions. Somehow, sitting down with that show made me feel at home in myself and I love myself more for it. So, tonight, I saw the last episode and I'm here because I needed to tell someone...I miss it, I love it, I'm sad, I'm better for it. Thank you Alan Ball and everyone connected with making it happen.Well, that's what I wrote last night. This morning I'm beside myself and I think this is the best place for me to talk about it (I see my therapist on Monday and of course will discuss it then). I don't know many people who've watched SFU. Many of my friends fear seeing it and my clients who've seen it -- sometimes due to my recommendation -- didn't want to "spoil" it for me and it's really not appropriate to bring it up now...like, "hey, I just saw the last episode of SFU and I'm crying all the time." About an hour ago I realized that I saw everyone I love on SFU die. That's a lot to deal with. I'm flooded with thoughts and feelings about these characters and my own life. My past is churning up inside of me and I wish my mother was still alive to talk to and to comfort me. I'm really sad. I hope other people will write about their experience of the show, what it has meant to them, not just review it. It is brilliant television...the actors are beyond the beyond...blah, blah, blah, but the real change, the surge, the action is what's happening inside of me. How about you?Charlotte
Although it is dead and buried, at least physically, Six Feet Under lives on as simply one of, if not, the greatest television show of all time. Event television is something that doesn't come along very often but the likes of Twin Peaks, The Sopranos and Six Feet Under are perfect examples of 'must see TV'. The perfect combination of humour and tear jerking emotion, Six Feet Under brings with it a legacy of creating television that you don't just watch. You live it. These characters became YOUR family. We all wanted to shake some sense into Nate when he began spiralling out of control in the third seasons thrilling climax, we all desperately wanted Keith and David to get together and stay together during the second season, and we felt for Ruth as she dealt with borderline depression and agonising loneliness during the fifth season.These are just a few of the dozens and dozens of complicated, beautiful and thought-provoking plot threads that weaved in and out of the Fisher family and their extended families.It showed us death was something that happened and it wasn't anything to be scared of. It allowed us a glimpse into the lives of a few very special people. It gave us a sense of belonging that very few if any television shows can bring us. To this day, over a year since the final ever episode aired, a masterpiece in itself, there is not one day that goes by that I don't think about and wish I could still visit with my friends the Fishers and spend some quality time with some old friends.R.I.P. Six Feet Under 2001 - 2005
Having just watched the series finale I sit here at my work desk unable to cope with the "real world". What can I find now that will fill the void left by this deeply moving and profound masterpiece?SFU deals with many taboo life events and leaves one with a sense of empathy and sheer admiration at how beautifully the writers roll up their sleeves and sully their hands with topics such as incest and drug abuse.Having recently experienced the death of my own father I can honestly say SFU invoked feelings and emotional responses that I didn't realise I was capable of experiencing. I would even go as far to say it has helped me identify and ultimately cope with my own loss.Superb characters, inspired story lines and a thoughtful soundtrack make SFU easily the best TV programme I have ever watched (and I have watched a lot of TV in my 30 odd years).I make no apologies when I raise my hand to my heart and honestly state that watching SFU has put a new perspective on my life and made me a better person.Congratulations America for making this superbly refreshing and often dark masterpiece.


                
Six Feet Under, HBO's most accomplished and consistently excellent show, ended a little more than two years ago. So why review the show, and learn about it now? Six Feet Under is much more than it seems. A rich show with several layers, it's all about people living their lives, making discoveries about themselves, and of course some drama, romance, and suspense thrown in for good measure. Not only is the show the best and most amazing show in television history, but it is also an incredible portrayal of human life and what it means to live. We live, we die, and the world keeps moving on. Six Feet Under is all about life and loss and all of the emotions, horrors, and realization that come with it. It is at times depressingly realistic, but it can also be beautifully true. There are so many beautiful things in this world, and if you just look or listen, you can find them. You can take joy in your life and make it worth living.The dialogue, the writing, and the acting make this show a real treasure, and there isn't a single flimsy patch in this perfectly built house. Every time a character has an argument or gives a big speech, everything is just perfectly laced with dark humor and an often cynical approach to life that everyone can openly relate to. We've all lost people that we care about, and we all have to move on. All of these situations and interactions seem so entirely human and possible that they really pull you in with their hard-hitting content. Which is also to say that this show doesn't hold anything back. It's raw. It's mean. It's real. There are practically no boundaries because that's exactly what life is; it's a big roller coaster ride of breaking rules, learning lessons, making mistakes, meeting new people, and new experiences. This show never teaches and preaches: it tells it like it is, and doesn't bother with subtlety.After the oldest member of the family, Nathaniel Fisher (Richard Jenkins), is killed suddenly in a car crash, all of the Fisher family is brought together under the strangest of circumstances. The family is very off-beat and bizarre, and each member lives (or lived) in the family house, a very large funeral home. There is: Ruth Fisher (Frances Conroy), caring, troubled mother who is still not sure what pleases her; Nate Fisher (Peter Krause), oldest son who was coming home for the holidays when tragedy struck; David Fisher (Michael C. Hall), closeted homosexual who takes over the family business in the wake of Nathaniel's tragedy; and Claire Fisher (Lauren Ambrose), quirky young high school student who becomes obsessed with photography. And of course, there is Federico Diaz (Freddy Rodriguez), facial restoration expert who works at the funeral home, Brenda Chenowith (Rachel Griffiths), a woman Nate meets in the first episode and becomes extremely attached to, and Keith Charles (Matthew St. Patrick), David's boyfriend and a mysterious figure to the rest of the family. The show is all about the budding family business, losing a loved one, Nate's reluctance to embrace his family, and David's reluctance of coming out, along with much more.The show is host to a series of spectacular performances from the likes of Michael C. Hall and Lauren Ambrose to the underrated Rainn Wilson and Peter Krause. Most of these episodes are filled to the brim with such heady emotional drama that if the wrong actors were participating, the show would be a total wreck. There are so many fantastical opportunities and guest appearances, and there were some truly amazing episodes every week. The people with smaller roles are even spectacular, and the ones that come in later in the series are simply to die for. Some of my favorite smaller-role characters: Bettina, played by Kathy Bates; Maggie, played Tina Holmes, Gabe, played by Eric Balfour; and Jimmy played by Peter Facinelli. It is also of note that nearly every cast member in any given episode contributes to the altogether perfect and realistic quality of this series.Six Feet Under might have ended in 2005, but its relevance to society and culture will probably not fade for quite some time. It remains the best show of all time simply because it was consistently superb, with not a single bad episode. The writing was the very best and there were constant references to previous seasons. With the finale, everything came full circle and we are left to reflect on our lives and the entire series. Each scene is so rich with detail and the final ten minutes are just stunning. After seeing this finale, this show truly moved from being extremely excellent to being the best show ever. After watching through the series twice now, it has become all the better because of the season finale. The characters are just so perfect and they are given what can only be described as extremely satisfying conclusions. There has arguably never been a more thought-provoking, realistic, moving, spectacular scene in the history of television. If you're a lover of Six Feet Under, here are some amazingly good recommendations: check out Dexter, Queer as Folk, Nip/Tuck, and Heroes.
Alan Ball's Peabody-winning seriocomic five-season saga is about a family with a particular blessing in disguise. Three siblings have spent their childhoods growing up with death ceaselessly in their home. And as a part of the business of death, they are on the receiving end of the grief and shock of murders, diseases, accidents and old age suffered by the loved ones of complete strangers (mostly). Each episode, save a baby's handful of significant ones, opens with the death of any given person, caused by anything from gang shootings or heart attack to too much LSD, and that death generally sets the pitch for its episode, pressing the characters to consider their present fortunes and hardships in a manner that is clarified by the death and its aftermath.Their customers' loved ones sprawled out in their birthday suits in the basement, which for decades has never had a break from the presence of lifeless rotting corpses with which the Fishers and their frustrated reconstructionist Rico become intimately acquainted during the exhuming process. This is the last environment in which most people---really, all people like Nathaniel Fisher, Sr.'s wife and children---would ever want to live their lives. However, they learn more about the realities of the world's two biggest fears, life and death, than the rest of us will ever confront. How does your old friend from high school run over himself? How does one deal with never knowing how and why your husband, wife, daughter, son, mother, father died so suddenly? The situations, circumstances, philosophies and moral dilemmas are endless.The catch-22 is that even though the Fishers and those close to them are reasonably wiser, they are not all necessarily stronger. Some become more reticent, or more resigned, or face more and more demons, or they cannot seem to do anything that doesn't feel like a waste of their time to exist.To a significant degree, the show is a square family drama, taking in hand such concerns as relationships, betrayal, and religion. In chorus, it is a show characterized by its unwavering spotlight on the upsetting matter of death. This notably Bergmanesque melodrama also has a pungent dose of black comedy, the element of surprise, unexpected juxtapositions and non- sequiturs. Time and again watching the show, one is shocked by its admirable run on the American air. US audiences don't tend to seek out shows in their free time about their worst fears, dealt with in heavy symbolic and cerebral ways and wracking you with longing, rage and tears. But the show is one of the healthiest, most cathartic things you could do in front of the television set. It makes you accept death. It causes you to reflect on the pros and cons of one's own situation just as the Fishers do every day. I, for one, am frequently bothered by the ambivalence of purpose to existence as a whole, and, while many would much rather escape into the worlds of Monk, Bones, Psych and other fluffy shows, I feel comforted by the likeminded company of these self-reflexive characters and their journeys through fatalism, existentialism, epiphany, joy and pain, especially when they do not belong to a commonly sensationalized world like crime or policework or sports. Rather, they are what many TV viewers I know would find repellant as characters to face each week. And these characters know this.There is not only a lot of tremendous talent but tremendous wisdom at work in this show, from the cast of both actors I already knew, like Rachel Griffiths, Freddy Rodriguez, James Cromwell, Patricia Clarkson and Kathy Bates, and remarkable actors I was just discovering, like Peter Krause, Michael C. Hall, Lauren Ambrose, Frances Conroy and Matthew St. Patrick, to the out-of-the-box master writers, Nancy Oliver and the show's Oscar-winning creator Ball.There are times when this show seems to drag, as surreal and genre-bending as it relentlessly is. Griffiths seems to always be having sex with someone. Lauren Ambrose indulges every narcissistic or pretentious pitfall of her, and my, generation. No one can seem to escape tactless, unpredictable pain and pain never seems to escape anyone's addicted control. Just know that if you persist till the show's finale, you will find its rewards owed no more than a handful of superlatives that do justice.
This was one of the best series on TV. It was such a shame to see it end. I was glued to the TV every Sunday night waiting to see what would be happening. It was touching and hit a lot of spots, it was sexy, funny, serious, and creative. Seeing Nate die was a shock i think i didn't see it coming at all, i think one thing about this show was its constant turn on what was going on, it was always moving around and they always kept you guessing as to what could happen. It was great seeing David and Keith together and stay together. They struggled and had to find their place but they made it. Brenda was one of those characters that you either hated or liked and with that it was almost transitional at times to see yourself being supportive about her and for her. With Nate i think we saw someone who was bitter from the start and to the finish. As to whether or not he honestly was ever happen who knows maybe when he was dead. Claire we saw her become a grownup, taking responsibility and making her way into something good. Not destructive. And seeing her find a good person who would be strong and be hard on her was good to see.. Seeing Brenda grown into an adult who raised Nate's daughter as her own was great, i personally didn't want to see them take that little girl from her. There was so much we saw and so many we saw change before us, it was good to see. It was an amazing show and seeing that it ended the way it did was sad and a true ending. It ended it, and we saw how, it was heartbreaking to see Keith die i cried the whole time it was playing the end. It was a warm, touching show and it will be missed and yet enjoyed every time its seen.
This is probably one of the best TV Shows ever. It's a pity that it's already over. There were 5 Seasons with each 13/12 Episodes á one hour. The Pilot introduces us to the Funeral Home 'Fisher & Sons' and the Fisher family who is hit with the tragedy of losing their father, husband and funeral home owner Nathaniel Fisher in a car accident.After his death Ruth, goes on a journey to find herself and goes through a lot of trouble while doing that. She has several affairs, but somehow she doesn't seem to find anything to make her content, and she's always having a hard time.The oldest son Nate lived in Seattle but after his father's death he stays in LA and becomes a funeral director himself, which he swore never to become in his youth. Eventually he's beginning to like his 'new' job. He has a wild relationship with Brenda Chenowith who is a very complex person, raised by Therapists and over-analyzed as a child, she is just longing for a normal life.The middle son David is deeply ashamed of being gay, which causes a lot of trouble in his relationship with his lover Keith in the first season. After his father's death he is the head of the funeral home, assisted by their employee Rico who makes up the dead.The youngest is Claire, she has a 'thing for sociopaths' and during the show she starts to go to art school, she wants to become an artist and she really does quite a lot of nice artwork. She's on drugs a lot, which the others are occasionally too.The show lives a lot of it's little 'dreams', 'ghosts' and 'imaginations' which are weird or unreal scenes during the real ones, showing the imagination of the characters. Those are a really fantastic thing. Also, the death's at the beginning of each episode are quite nice. Those are small scenes showing the perish of the funeral home's 'customers'.It's a very complex show even though it 'only' has 63 episodes in all. Most of it is rather dramatic because it is a Drama show, but some parts are funny, some are morbid, some are weird. This show certainly breaks an awful lot of Taboo's in the environment of TV Shows. The dead are shown - sometimes more and sometimes less grotesque, drugs are more or less common, swearing and sex are anyway, and the show also has highly political aspects, for example the state of homosexual people in the society. Episode 5x11 also is very critical towards the war and crap like that.Throughout the show we accompany the Fisher family through a lot of small and some big tragedies, which in the end all tie up. Therefore it doesn't make sense to just watch it 'every now and then', you really have to watch every single episode from the beginning, otherwise you won't have a clue of what's going on and what's this all about. It's like a huge complex storyline in a book or similar. You can't just skip pages when you're reading a book ;) The show is of course essentially about death and everything that surrounds it (like the Fisher family ;) When I just watched the 4 Final Episodes yesterday and today, I really couldn't stop myself from crying, and I haven't cried over movies or shows since a couple of years. It's so damn unbelievably sad. But the last 5 or 10 minutes in the very last episode make it good again, when a small glimpse of the future is shown.It's simply a great show.
Winner of Golden Globes, Emmy's Awards and appeared for a couple of time on the <U+0084>Best TV Series Of All Time" lists show Six Feet Under appeared on TV for the first time in 2001. Alan Ball's (American Beaty) series takes a look at members of isolated, living in a funereal home Fisher's family. The eldest son, Nate Fisher, comes back from Seattle home in L.A. after his father's unexpected death. He finds out that his dad inherited family business between him and his gay brother <U+0096> David. Now he has to learn how to live in this strange home again. David hides his homosexuality, and pretends to be a Christian values son. Brother's mother, Ruth must has to face a life without a husband, when her teenage daughter Claire has problem with law and she is trying to find her own personality. During 5 incredible seasons we can see how Fishers are grow up, change, loose their isolation, look for sense of life and... die.Six Feet Under is a perfect drama series, which has everything and even more, what drama should has <U+0096> well written, great plot and realistic characters, unashamed in showing a pain and dead, but not without dark humor, intelligence. Shows not only Fisher's family problems (adoloscent adult man and a teenage girl, gay, old woman), but also their friends: Nate's girlfriend Brenda and her depressive brother Billy, David's boyfriend Keith, Fisher's Latin employee Rico, Ruth's boyfriends and other fantastic characters appear on our screen. The roles of Nate and Brenda ale played by absolutely perfect Peter Krause and Rachel Griffiths (nominated and she won Golden Globes, Emmy's), who show what a real acting means. Great Frances Conroy (Broken Flowers, Scent of a Woman, Aviator) who plays Ruth is except Nate the most important character of the show. Micheal C. Hall (Dexter) as David, and Lauren Ambrose as Claire are also brilliant.What is a most memorable about Six Feet Under apart from mentioned acting and plot is fantastic music composed by Thomas Newman (Shawshank Redemption, The Horse Whisperer, Amercian Beauty, The Green Mile, Wall.E) is dark humor. Show is very serious, but it also has funny scenes, which makes we laugh every time we see them, and remember very long. Another thing is that Alan Ball's production is drama, but it doesn't have cheap, mush purchase which drama often has. Show isn't schematic, you never know what happens next, and you'e always surprised. Great thing in Six Feet Under is that we become very attached to Fisher's, and we start to take them very personal, like members of our family. This is one of the reason, why we remember many scenes for a long time after we watched them. The best thing about show is final. It's an incredible explosion of emotions. The last 15 minutes show the real sense of everyone's life. It's the greatest thing you'll ever see on a big, or a small screen. Six Feet Under is a beautiful masterpiece which won't be forgotten.


                
This show, this show... Hmmm, how to start? Maybe from some adjectives. This show is Awesome, Brilliant, Breathtaking, The Best in the history of cinematography, the Best in the world and the Best in the whole Universe. I've seen lot of series in my life - "Friends", "X-Files" and I'm currently seeing some shows like: "Lost", "24" and all of them are great, because you can't wait for the next episode etc. But SFU is the best from all of them. Not because of Visual effects or great action in every episode but because shows life, simply life and all of troubles you find out or you will find out in your life. After seeing some of episodes you would like to dance and laugh because you know that in spite of all troubles Life is good and worth to fight to keep it good. But after seeing next episodes what you only want to do is go to sleep and don't think about all the nightmares around you. And because of that this series is so great - makes you to think about your life, about choices you made and you will make, about what you would like to do in your life to make it happy, to make people you are living with happy or at least happier.Dear IMDb users who watched this show - please ask yourself one question - does any of shows makes you think about these most important things? Doeas any of shows gets all these thoughts into your head? Yes I admit that entertaining shows like "24" or "Lost" are also important for everybody who loves the cinema but isn't "SFU" the best from all of them? I think yes and I can't believe that somebody will make better thing.
Over the years I had watched the occasional episode of SFU on TV every now and then and quite enjoyed it, without knowing much about it. I am terrible at following TV series regularly.So I finally decided to buy the DVD box a while ago and started to watch SFU from the very beginning. Today I reached the series finale and I must say that it has been a fantastic ride. I actually CRIED the last minutes of the finale, I could not believe it. I am definitely not the sentimental type and I very rarely get emotions from a TV-screen (if ever), but this series just overwhelmed me and I was actually sad to leave Fisher and Friends. I loved the characters, I loved their complexity and the well-written episodes. I also loved the way the series keeps its consistency over the seasons and I loved the ending. Of course there were some characters and some plot twists that did not appeal to me, but that is inevitable and maybe makes it even more exciting to watch. The only question left is - what in the world should I watch now?!10 out of 10, I cannot praise this one enough.


                
For five years Six Feet Under entranced, entertained and moved audiences all over the world with its black humor, sharp characterization and flawless cast. It is now justly remembered as one of the best programs in television history, and can undoubtedly be considered HBO's masterpiece, hand in hand with The Sopranos - that's how groundbreaking its five seasons and 63 episodes were and still are.The show was created by Alan Ball, the Oscar-winning writer of American Beauty, and it is easy to see how SFU is Beauty's small-screen companion piece: they're both poignant, funny, original studies of traditional American values and families gone wrong, two pitch-perfect satires that hit the target with unprecedented accuracy, unafraid to use foul language, sex, drugs and - a truly brilliant choice, this - dream sequences to achieve their goal.What the Burnhams did on the big screen, the Fishers do on the small: they appear to be normal, but are really too dysfunctional to even accept themselves. Of course, "normality" is a bit of an odd concept when your house is a funeral parlor and you spend day after day comforting strangers while wearing a mask of thinly veiled hypocrisy.From that situation Ball got the premise of the show: what if one day you had to bury a family member? When Nathan Samuel Fisher Sr. (Richard Jenkins), owner of Fisher & Sons, is run over by a bus in the first scene of the series, the rest of the family slowly falls apart: the adulterous widow Ruth (Frances Conroy) is overcome by guilt; the eldest son, Nate Jr. (Peter Krause) is forced to reluctantly join the business; his brother David (Michael C. Hall) is completely dedicated to the family trade, but also gay and a bit awkward when he has to express his feelings; and the youngest sibling (Claire) has a thing for experimenting with drugs and dating the wrong boys. Helping them, or possibly not, in their attempts to cope with the new situation, are Federico Diaz (Freddy Rodriguez), who embalms the corpses over at Fisher & Sons, Keith Charles (Mathew St. Patrick), an African-American police officer who is dating David, and Brenda Chenowith (Rachel Griffiths), Nate's girlfriend, who has to deal with a twisted brother of her own, the mentally disturbed Billy (Jeremy Sisto).Six Feet Under was an essential tool in dealing with one of the biggest taboos in television: death. Every Single episode begins with someone biting the dust, often in a darkly comic way (the porn-star who gets electrocuted by her cat in the fifth episode comes to mind). Subsequently, the Fishers have to arrange the burial, and in most cases the departed come back in ghostly form to offer advice (the most notable case is that of Nathaniel Fisher himself, who pops up regularly in all five seasons). Many people were shocked by the almost grotesque tone of the series (the pilot episode even had fake commercials for funeral products), but what they failed to understand is that Six Feet Under deals with death as a means to celebrate life. To fully embrace existence implies that at some point one must also discuss the end of it all, and like Alfred Hitchcock used to say in his own TV series, what better way to face death than with a smile on your face? In its own, twisted way, this show confirmed that once again laughter is the best medicine.That doesn't mean the series should be mistaken for a full-on comedy, though: like stablemate The Sopranos, Six Feet Under remains, at its core, a pure American tragedy, the black humor being there just as a partial relief from the bleaker events occurring throughout the show's five-year run. The drama is perfectly served not just by the outstanding writing, but also, fundamentally, by the actors: Krause and Hall received most of the early praise, the former for acting as the audience's guide into the Fishers' twisted world, the latter for playing a believable, three-dimensional gay person, as opposed to the deliberately excessive and flamboyant characters depicted in another HBO hit, Sex and the City. The truth is, everyone gives their best, both the show's regulars (Rodriguez and Griffiths in particular) and the magisterial guest stars, including Patricia Clarkson, Lili Taylor, James Cromwell and Kathy Bates (who also directed a few episodes, like Steve Buscemi in The Sopranos).With its unique perspective on life and death, which was controversially amusing and surprisingly serious at the same time, Six Feet Under stands out as one of the edgiest, most brilliant and thought-provoking products American TV has ever spawned, a series whose reflection on the American way of life has few rivals in any artistic category.


                
...right away. There is not one character that I did not hate in at least one moment in the first episodes. And thats what got me hooked, I was tired of series in which there is one constant "hero" who does everything always right. I wanted something much more realistic and SFU was exactly that.I love it for at least ten highly complex (main) characters. And you understand each of them in what they do with their lives, to each other and how they react in a situation.I love it because of the cast. They all play their characters unbelievable authentic. Michael C. Hall and Peter Krause show that they are two of the best actors in TV-Series nowadays. And they do that in 63 episodes.I love it for the writing. From the first episode to the very last one there is not one where you think the story holds still. It is simply brilliant.I love it for the last 20 minutes of the last episode (5x12). I never cried so long and so hard because of something fictional. It was simply my most emotional TV moment ever.All I can say is that if you haven't already watched this series you should definitely do it.


                
I just wrote this update on my facebook: I just finished watching the very last episode of Six Feet Under, which is, without a doubt, the best thing I have ever seen on television: perfect amazing brilliant thought provoking philosophical superlative etc. acting, casting, writing, directing, scene composition, character development, lighting, stories ... It was funny, it was sad, it was crazy, it was EPIC! That pretty much sums it up for me. The show always centers around death and funerals but so much happens and so many things are examined, I simply do not remember ever seeing anything like it on TV.Setting a drama in a family run funeral home turned out to have been a great idea, but it's the characters and the life the actors and actresses lend to their characters that really sets this series apart.Also notable are the very strong female characters and that one of the main characters is gay and his life is examined in detail just as much as everyone else.


                
This show is deeply, beautifully, hilariously, mundanely, cruelly, heart-wrenchingly - the list could go on and on - ALIVE. Watching it felt almost like experiencing several lifetimes condensed into 50+ hours. I've never before experienced such a range and depth of emotions through this artistic medium. I wouldn't say that Six Feet Under catches every single aspect of the human condition but it comes painfully close, especially where it matters. If you feel misanthropic or cynical about life at times, if you would like to widen your perspective and can handle being in pain in addition to laughing yourself silly over people's imperfections and perfections, if you feel that you'd like to mature a bit, if you long for improving your understanding of what love is about, then this show is definitely for you.


                
i've watched many MANY TV shows before but nothing compares at all to six feet under. the characters are beyond amazing, well developed and relatable. the deaths at the beginning of the show are not only creative and capturing, but plausible. who ever knew there were so many ways to die? the actors suit perfectly, with no favourite in particular. i must say, the only reason i began watching this show is because i was very interested in Michael c. hall's previous work to dexter and six feet under has proved to be much better than anything i've ever seen. i have nothing bad to say about this show at all- being the absolute best TV series in history, with the most perfect beginning middle and end. it's definitely a MUST watch before you die. (no pun intended)


                
In first I would like to say that this series is the best series i have ever watched. It's one of the most realistic of series out there. The acting is amazingly good, I really admire the cast and crew. Personally I think Peter Krause has done a great job on this one. I also like that there isn't a main character in the series. You follow the life of different people, all facing there own problems and confronting these problems on there own different ways.I thought Alan ball would stay in my mind as the creator of "American beauty", but for me "Six feet under" takes away that number 1 place in my list. I would highly recommend this to anyone with interest in motion picture's with "real" emotion, leaving beside the corny melodramatic scene's and replacing them with "real" human emotions.


                
A man in his 50s, driving a brand new shiny black hearse is smashed to smithereens by a bus, just moments after being jokingly warned by his wife he would die a slow and painful death from smoking. So begins 'Six Feet Under' a macabre, funny, and moving television program that may well the best damn thing to ever hit the small screen.Created by Alan 'American Beauty' Ball, 'Six Feet Under' offers viewers a world about the one thing that will eventually happen to all of us, death. Seen through the eyes of Nate, David, Ruth and Claire Fisher, the show depicts life in a funeral home with the family always having to deal with death in one way or another.'Six Feet Under' displays a marvelous tone that deftly balances between tragedy and comedy, with an almost organic progression from the joyfully black humour of the first season to the absolutely heartbreaking fifth season. Of course, this tone is carried by a uniformly superb cast headed by Peter Krause, Michael C. Hall, Frances Conroy and Lauren Ambrose as the Fishers. Krause is sublime, Hall is fabulous, Conroy is daring and Ambrose fresh. Additional cast members include Freddy Rodriguez as Fisher and Sons employee Federico Diaz; Mathew St. Patrick as David's lover Keith Charles; and (as we're reminded in the opening credits), Rachel Griffiths as Nate's 'fuck puppet', Brenda Chenowith.Every character is brilliant in this show from Lily Taylor's warm Lisa to the marvelous Joanna Cassidy as the hilarious Margaret Chenowith. With such a talented cast, one would think those who stand out are truly something to behold. And so it is Peter Krause who projects Nate as selfish yet spiritual, loving but still a teenager at heart to deliver one of the most interesting lead characters this side of Tony Soprano. Nate's journey is profoundly moving at each step yet Krause offers Nate an 'everyman' quality which allows the viewer to identify with him. Krause is balanced perfectly by Griffiths who journeys with Brenda in such a fearless manner that the viewer is transfixed. Brenda is probably the best female character ever to grace television and it is a joy to see such an intelligent actress like Griffiths navigate her.Despite all the attention to the acting it is without a doubt that it is Ball and his team of writers and directors that make this show great. Techniques such as hyper-realism, daydreams and dead bodies manifesting themselves to represent the main characters give amazing insight into these people and it is wholly to the credit of the writing. The show is wonderfully cinematic with the cinematography gorgeous and the editing extremely intelligent. Standout episodes include 'The Foot', 'All Alone' (in which the Fisher family, and the viewers, prepare for the most heartbreaking and emotional funeral of the series) and every season final, with the penultimate series finale giving us what no other television show ever has. Having watched all prior episodes, the final send off from the Fishers is less an ending to a television show and more an experience of some of life's deepest emotions all at once. Do not deny yourself 'Six Feet Under' - it is a treat like no other and will stay with you long after the final fade to white.


                
What makes this show outshine practically everything is that it really makes use of the genre to do something you simply can't get from a movie while maintaining movie quality acting and depth of storytelling: it allows the characters to build slowly, complexly and self-contradictingly, just like real people. Because of this, the viewer comes to feel that they really know these people, that they could be real people. And that in turn, allows the stories to reach depths and peaks of emotion that are rarely captured on screen...any kind of screen. I can't say enough about how good this show is. superb.Even the cinematography is amazing. The scriptwriting is incredible. I plan to use clips from this in an anthropology class discussing death.


                
This show is, simply put, beyond amazing.I have never been so moved by a movie, television show, song, or book. I've only been moved to tears like I was with this show in real life. The show practically IS real life. I feel like I grew with the characters, and my outlook on life and death is now changed.Every character, more or less, represents a different layer of us. They're all so human. They all lead really f***ed up lives, they all make huge mistakes, but we love them regardless. They destroy each other and themselves, they fall, they get back up, they fall again, they live, they die. I've never seen a movie with such raw emotion. Every episode begins with the death of a (usually) unknown character. The episode doesn't rely on their deaths for the plot of the story, but it fuels a lot of the revelations and feelings that stem later on.Another incredible aspect of the show is it's unfailing ability to be unpredictable. I can't think of one thing on the show that I could have guessed. The way the characters ended up in the final episode was polar opposite of how I would have envisioned them in the beginning! Every character undergoes a major arc, not always for the better. But one thing in the show is for certain about what will happen to these characters: they will die. Just like all of us, just like everyone in the world, they will die. Whenever Claire takes a picture of her family in the end, a ghost from her past whispers into her ear, "You can't take a picture of this, it's already gone". She ignores this, like most people tend to, but in her heart she knows it's true. As happy as everyone in the show is, no matter how happy their lives are or full their success is...sooner than later, they all will be dead. This is no different from life.10/10. I can't recommend it enough. Whether you even truly enjoy the show, anyone can guarantee that it will make you FEEL something. For a while I have been numb to emotion and pessimistic about life, but this show changed that. Life is something that is beautiful and hideous, lovely and cruel, peaceful and scary, easy and hard. I have to live and make the best of it, and feel, because I know that I'll be gone soon.If you don't watch this show, I think you've missed out on an integral part of dealing with life and death(and that is actually no exaggeration).
Six Feet Under is the greatest achievement of HBO, the studio currently producing the best television in the English language in the world.Unlike any other show I've ever seen it deals with the real problems of life: love, death, purpose, and portrays life in all its sadness, happiness, humour and ambiguity. It deals with life's delusions, the relationships that make life worthwhile, the dreams and hallucinations that are beautiful and funny examples of what goes on in our head than never really gets portrayed on screen.Having seen all five seasons of this show the characters to me are so real I could expect to travel to L.A. and find the Fisher and Diaz funeral home, knock on the door and be welcomed in by David. These people to me are real, I love them, they are like my own family.


                
SIX FEET UNDER (2001-2005)I never thought a written piece of drama could show the dream sequences as they have shown in this show. Be it imagining shouting at someone while they are talking to you or imagining talking to them when they are not talking to you or the weird dreams you have about people, Six Feet Under has it all. That's what I like the most about it: Dreamscapes.The show tries to be very realistic about how mind works and succeeds greatly in doing so. Love, lust, hate, betrayal, fear, insecurity, loneliness and sadness are only a few of the emotions portrayed by the characters. Every time a character goes through something, you know it can be something that happened or can happen to you.Contrary to the title of the show, it is as much about life as it is about death. The deaths at the beginning of each episode and the funerals that follow somehow makes you think about you. Sometimes you just sit and wonder how would you die? Would you have led a life that you wanted? Would you have done all the things you wanted to do? So many questions. The show makes you think about all that and more. It connects to you on different emotional levels.Overall it's a great realistic TV show that tries to show what goes on in people's minds, how weird people can be, how they live and how they try to cope with death. Although not fantasy, it still takes you to a different world with its dreamy sequences. The best thing about the show is how messed up the characters are and how each one relates to you at some point. The resemblance to real life is uncanny.What can I say about the series finale except that it perfectly fits the theme of the show. Anybody who invests their time to watch the whole show won't be disappointed by it. You will be glad to have watched the show. I knew it was good, just did not know how good. Mind=Blown!!


                
Think about life.not only yours,but life in general . done it? now watch this show...and ,in the end you will know what i'm talking about ;)This is tremendous in every single aspect . The chemistry between actors, the story,the pace,the details about life that keeps you thinking and remembering that we are all different but all alike in several(and most of)things. Watch,please watch and review this, so ,more people can be aware about one of the greatest shows ever written !my opinion doesn't count much ,less if you don't watch the entire show, so, get it started and finish this gem .After it, please review and give the same 10 points as i just did . Now i will write the same, i always write, about why is important to give your vote, because in this case this will make the difference between a good show and a great show with more and more positive reviews(from people that actually watch the show, not just ears about it)Every time I do the shows review is because I do believe some shows are more than just good or great, they are imperative to watch, because we cannot pass through life without paying attention to some things that are really worth to be noticed, a lot of rubbish is dumped on TV, but a lot of art is also available, you just have to make a choice, and i really want you to chose this one here ;)


                
I very rarely write reviews but this show holds a special place in my heart. The most outstanding element of this show is its honesty. It deals with various extremely difficult and profound issues everyone has to deal with in life - depression, adjustment, grief, relationships, alienation and even the value of life itself. The characters are so well casted and the script so strong that you actually care what happens to them, something which is extremely difficult to achieve in a TV show. Each character is believable and exceptionally well acted (particularly Nate & David). This is also one of the first prime time US TV shows to show quite intimate homosexual affections and even sex. Although I admit this may be due to Alan Ball's own sexuality it is still non the less brave and its pulled off in style. Throughout the series David goes through stages which I'm sure most homosexuals can relate to. The gay characters are not stereotypical which is something a lot of shows don't seem to get right. I've never met someone who's watched this show and didn't love it. I've even managed to coerce a couple of people into watching it.It's also got the best ending of any show ever. If you haven't seen this show, I'm actually jealous that you have the entire thing to watch. What are you waiting for?


                
