This is probably one of the best TV series I have ever seen. When NBC says must see TV, well this is what that really is, unlike most of their garbage.The acting is top notch, and the story lines although somewhat soap opera-ish, it is probably one of the top no holds barred series ever created. I didn't even like American Beauty! I thought it was rather disgusting in most respects, but Alan Ball has created a true masterpiece in this series. I just hope that all of the original cast stays with the series for at least a few more years. I just hope they bow out like Seinfeld did. (Updated 2-14-11)I was a little homophopic, but it may sound hard to believe, but I have lost most of it just because of this series. That was grained into me as a Christian child that being gay is wrong. I honestly don't know what to believe anymore, but I've never met a gay person I haven't liked, so that tells you how much I've grown, since I 1st wrote this review 8 years ago. End of Update. Bravo to the cast (especially Peter Krause, Rachel Griffiths, oh screw it, the whole cast deserves emmy noms!


                
Six Feet Under caught me by surprise when I started watching it and though at no point thought I would want to watch the whole show found I was already in Season 3. It is in a lot of ways very twisted with the various characters all so damaged and pathetic. But that is what makes the show good. It adds in comedy that you can only get in a funeral home setting with some people damaged from growing up in that setting combined with characters just emotionally damaged to have the show working things out in them through the series. I didn't expect the trigger to a great deal of healing to be Nate dying towards the end of the show, but it makes sense in retrospect. He was the one seeking "normalcy" harder than anyone, so why not have him passing without coming to realize it is all relative to who you are and where you are from to set the rest of the cast free to (apparently) go on to live a full life and not bogged down by the past. I wound up enjoying the show a great deal and think it is definitely worth watching. Certainly shows how much has changed since 2000!
One of the best TV drama series to have aired. Have completed watching so many series, but I wept like a baby for this series finale. I would probably recommend this series in the top 5 for someone who is about to start watching TV series like for the first time. The finale just says how a life is to be loved and what's to be expected. It's like someone went through the exact same life experience just as you. If you loved Michael C. Hall's performance in Dexter, then you are going to love his performance again because it's just "wow". Each character's performance grows each season. Excellent show and wonderful performance, with a superb ending.


                
This HBO series was ground-breaking from the start, giving the lie to the old gibe that the US is incapable of producing quality, radical television. Not just the subject matter - death and how we deal with loss - but the family of funeral directors and their relationships, has stretched the boundaries of what is acceptable on the small screen. In 63 episodes, recently watched on videotape and DVD, we are drawn into the lives, loves and sexuality of what becomes less like a dysfunctional family and more like real people, real relationships: the realities of an affluent post-industrial secular society.I have never seen, and sadly don't think I will again see, such an intimate dissection of family life, explored in such depth and at such length, but always with affection and spade-loads of black humour. It is said that once drama series start to focus more on character than story and situation, they tend to drift towards cosiness. (Remember MASH, which veered from its original hard edge to a sentimental exploration of wartime relationships.) Instead, Six Feet Under's relentless swings and roundabouts, sometimes shocking (David's abduction), often cruel (we just knew, didn't we, that Nate would once more wreck his relationship with Brenda, even with a baby on the way and a child to care for), always believable (Billy & Brenda and their boundary-free mother), often jaw-dropping (Claire and the purloined foot, the stiff with a stiffy, Rico casually replacing the back of a corpse's scull), never let up on the realism.The performances were almost all excellent, the two main leads (Peter Krause and Michael C. Hall) only relatively poor in such company. I particularly liked Claire (Lauren Ambrose) and Rico (Freddy Rodriguez), but to single them out seems hard on the others, specially Brenda (Rachel Griffiths) and her faultless American accent. But what stands out for me were the characterisations. What a gift to Frances Conroy to have her inhabit a perfectly realised late-middle-aged woman (Ruth) with so much to reveal behind the domesticity. It's a role that most actresses of her age would die for (!), and she gave it everything and then some. And the final series once more allowed the actors full reign to their musical talents (perhaps an original casting requirement), returning to the lip-synch breakout performances which were a feature of the first episodes. Lauren Ambrose, in particular, revels.And that was while they were still alive; the final act was to allow Nate's brain condition to return, sending the family into a tailspin of tragedy (but final uplift, a magical last five minutes) from which they, just like their professional clients, have to recover. Even without so many hours in the company of these troubled but fully realised characters, the ending would sear its way into memory; but having watched the whole five sets, it is in my view the finest conclusion of a television drama series. It's possible that Alan Ball and his creative team viewed these as a potential, rather than actual, set of future lives; after all, knowing what we do about them, is it likely that these people would still be with the partners we last saw them with, twenty or thirty years hence ? But the last few minutes seems more like an affectionate coda to the present, allowing them finally to find some contentment (but with one exception: SFU could never be *that* optimistic) in the future.There are some minor quibbles. Sometimes the fantasy-wish-fulfilment-dream sequences were overdone, so that when the characters really did lose temper or break control the impact was lessened because we'd seen that 'not' happen so many times before. Some of the relationship breakups and recoveries seemed overly rapid, so that what looked irrevocable was healed in the next one or two episodes. And given the subject matter, it must have been tempting for the writers to rely on shock and awe yet again (the lift, the cougar, the mixing machine) rather than explore the more mundane realities of death. Middle America, if not Middle England, must have been several times provoked, sometimes deliberately.So, get the DVDs and allow yourself to be drawn in; forget the contrivances (the opening sequences usually have little to do with the rest of the episodes), and spend 63 or so hours of your life with these annoying, funny, disappointing, sexy, talented, and wonderfully real people. You'll never forget them.
Almost 10 years after the (perfect) series finale, I'm finally writing a review of the show that I love and have gone back to time and time again. For some morbid, strange and fascinating reason, Six Feet Under has always been with me. Each story arc, each character, each fight, each laugh and each moment has always stayed with me. I'm not going to say that I'm some sort of expert of the series that can recount every episode, but, I will say that I can FEEL every episode. Every single dramatic movie/TV acting role I have seen ever since SFU has been based on this series. I was 17 when this series started and close to when I was came out, so there is a lot of significance to me. The relationship between David and Matthew was pure gold to me (as screwed up as it was, but it was love). Every performance was perfect. There might have been a weird lull in the middle of the series in around season 3 or 4, but it never failed to captivate, grow and really love the characters, flaws and all. Every episode struck a cord. No matter what you say, it covered most bases. Death (obviously, grief, happiness, contentedness and joy. It dealt with psychological issues, drugs, hate, dislike, mothers, fathers, daughters, sons and just general relationships. After 5 seasons, what other series can ever say that it's done that. And another chord it struck was the magic in the opening credits - the most amazing in television history... in my opinion. And lastly, the FINAL episode... and the FINAL 5 minutes. If you haven't seen it, and don't see it until you've gone through the whole series, it's hard to judge. It wrapped up it up just perfectly. No muss, no fuss and no qualms. PS... it introduced a part of the world to Sia (I was living in Australia at the time, so it was kind of perfect). All in all, it's a series that everyone needs to see. I know that everyone is saying that Breaking Bad is the perfection of TV (I have yet to see the whole series... I have the whole series waiting to be viewed), but Six Feet Under will always be in my heart as the penultimate (and probably the start) of television.


                
Following the success of his multiple award winning picture "American Beauty" (1999) writer/producer Alan Ball got the opportunity to delve even deeper into the American soul - in series format, allowing much broader stories to be told, and with no strings attached. As it was HBO who ordered the series there were no taboos off-limit, and by request of the network's entertainment president Carolyn Strauss the scripts were welcomed to be a "little more *beep*ed up" than the usual Hollywood fare... Alright then, so there you have it: the edgy full package of controversial themes permeating (American) society on a plate, ranging from sex maniacs over psychotic parents-children relationships with incestuous touches, to abortions and gays as main characters. Hypocrisy abounds and of course there's violence, drugs, foul language, shock and awe, peppered with spectacular horrible deaths.Admittedly, all that might sound a bit off-putting for a serious drama series if that's all there is to it. However, "Six Feet Under" proves to be much more than a collection of weirdos in grotesque situations. Actually, it's a family show, or rather about a family, and that is key. In its center is not a clichéd dysfunctional sitcom inspired "pseudo-unit", rather "Six Feet Under" deals with the turbulent, fragile lives of real people confronted with real problems and the choices they have to make in life, and it's not always pleasant. The show is a coming of age drama on multiple levels that happens in the ever present face of death, as the Fishers are owners of a funeral parlor. With the territory come tragedy, hardship and emotions in troves, and it all adds to home made problems. What's special about the show is that thanks to great writers like Ball black comedy and surrealism are mixed in, so that you get your fill of amusement in the unfolding drama, and of course the given somber undertones. Always thought-provoking and often on a tightrope walk, but rarely over the top, "Six Feet Under" also shines with an outstanding multiracial ensemble cast (Peter Krause, Rachel Griffiths, Michael C. Hall, Mathew St. Patrick, Freddy Rodríguez, Frances Conroy etc.) that allows the characters to live and breathe. You cannot pay the show more tribute than admitting that once the curtain goes down at the final episode it feels like a serious loss to have to say good-bye to the struggles of the characters, their idiosyncrasies, their hopes and dreams. The series has extremely strong moments that succeed in confronting you with everything life entails, your own mortality included, actually especially that. The show's recipe: The more you think about the inevitability of death, the stronger your lust for life, and in each funeral there's a reminder thereof.


                
This is a great show with intelligent, nuanced, heartfelt direction and writing. All of the characters are so well-fleshed out, one gets the impression their writers must be well-studied in psychology. I got all the seasons recently and I was so addicted that it didn't last long.But I must admit, the show isn't for everyone. As great as the show is, often I felt very tempted to dismiss it as being an overly-liberal, PC, atheistic, melodramatic death-porn soap-opera full to the brim with gratuitous drug use and sex. All of the characters are crazy in their own way, usually you just gotta love-to-hate them, but sometimes you just hate-to-hate them and it seems like the writers overdid it. The direction is quaintly introverted, with its emphasis on little daydream sequences and conversations with imaginary friends. Sometimes these sequences seem funny and heartfelt, but other times it seems like dreary, self-indulgent solipsism. The show is good, but I couldn't blame someone for not liking it.As unlikable as most of the characters are at some point or another, you just gotta love actors for doing such a great job. Seeing Michael Hall in this after I finished "Dexter", I can really see why they picked him to star in the latter show. He's really good at portraying the serious, uptight, yet sympathetic closeted guy. The actress who plays "Ruth" is just perfect for her role. My favorite though is definitely Brenda. The writers made her have an unrealistic, half-assed form of supposed Borderline Personality Disorder, where she isn't manipulative and moody and irrational like a real person with BPD is, instead she's just slutty and commitment-phobic enough to keep the plot interesting. She's the only character in the show who is actually cool and interesting. My least favorite character was Nathaniel junior. As PC as the show is, they just couldn't resist making the central character the one boring straight white male in the show, could they? He is handsome and charming and inoffensive enough at first, but by the end of show he becomes so loathsome I was glad to see him go.Anyway, I recommend you give the show a try. I must admit it took a few episodes for it to grow on me, so don't give up if you are unimpressed by the pilot.


                
I missed this series when it was aired in Sweden ten years ago, as I did not have a television at that time. But of course I heard and read a lot about it, and now I have downloaded the whole series. I have, to date, watched the whole season 1, and four episodes of season 2.At first I thought the idea of a TV series about the funeral trade, seemed depressing and even a little nauseating. But it turned out that one got used to it very quickly, and after a few episodes one does not find it strange or creepy to watch the dead bodies anymore. It comes all natural. Now I even think it can be healthy and useful, to let some light into this "silent trade"! In the first season, I found almost everything that happened to the various family members, both professionally and in their private lives, very interesting. I could not stop watching! The gay world, for instance, has been as foreign to me as the funeral business. Another story-line which was interesting - and hopeful, to me who is in almost the same age and situation - is how the middle-aged mother of the family could find love again. She had not just one suitor, but two! :-)Another issue that I can identify with, is the jealousy between a sibling and the other sibling's partner. Such as with Nate and Brenda's brother. Because I had that situation with my ex husband's sister when we met and were married. They had always been very close and she wanted to continue being the most important person in his life, so she hated me and tried to ruin our relationship. This is an important purpose of fiction - novels, movies... - I think: to make you see that you are not alone. To see how other people deal with the same problems.Unfortunately, now when I have watched four episodes of season 2, I am a little disappointed. I think it is getting a little boring, and that there are too many repetitions from season 1. The pace is slower. There is too much focus on the little sister's high school-world I think - this is simply not interesting for an adult audience. Ruth's attempts to find herself through various strange courses and self-help books, are becoming repetitive and uninteresting. Also, I think it was a big mistake to bring Keith's family into the series at all. The connection with the Fisher family is not strong enough, and it is simply not interesting enough. Etc. etc.. And the novelty and a little guilty curiosity about the work they do in the funeral business - such as the various procedures for restoring the corpses for the viewing - were already sated in season 1...I give this series 7 stars at the moment, as I should have given the first season 9, but what I have seen of season 2 up to now only 5. So 7 is the average. But I will give it another few episodes, before I give up on it!***I just finished watching season five - that is the last season - and I feel I have to add some comments. As you see, I have taken the show right up to 9 stars again! It was amazing! I could not stop watching. I am glad I continued watching after those first episodes of season 2 - which WERE slow and tedious with uninteresting people in them, such as Keith's family. But then the tempo got up again, and they introduced so many interesting new issues that I could relate to. Either because I have had a bout of them myself at some point in my life, or because some relative or friend of mine have.Such as the eternal problem (Brenda) when you are 30+ and know that your fertility is in a decline - but you have either not found Mr Right, or he does not want you, or he does not want children. Should you settle for someone who wants you, and wants children with you, while you have this possibility? Even if it means living with someone you do not love? Or dare you wait another year or two - and hope..?And the problem (Brenda, Lisa, Nate) with the first wife, who is dead. As she is dead you cannot compete with her, because she can no more do anything wrong. In your husband's memories she will only grow more perfect for every year, while you are getting older and fatter...And the problem with the step-child, that you are supposed to take care of. But when it comes to the crunch, you will here the phrase that Nate said to Brenda: "easy for you to say. She is not YOUR child".And the problem with the grand-child (Ruth, Lisa). You are supposed to take care of it, but then your daughter-in-law will find a lot of faults with your way of doing it...All these issues - and many more - are eternal in women's lives, in all countries and all times, I think. It was a very positive thing in this series, that there was so much for women - in all ages - in it. At the same time as it did not become too boring for the male audience.This was one of the best series I have ever seen, of all those that are set in modern times, and that deal with family life and life in general in a (more or less) realistic way.
I just finished watching the entire series and I can truly say that "Everybody's Waiting" was the best episode of any shows ever! The show depicted infinite number of ways to die in a very honest, true, touching and provocative way and I have witnessed silent, violent and sometimes timely deaths throughout the show. Yet, the last six-minutes depicting the deaths of all major characters through Claire's vision was definitely unique in TV history. I think SFU is one of the best shows I have ever seen despite its overly sexually explicit content. I think I will need to watch it a couple of times to appreciate the nuances I may have missed watching for the first time. I learnt that there was no time limit for grief and that "time is the best remedy" is nonsense. In each episode, the major character was darkness. I had a strong sense of identification towards the Fishers who were in the midst of a trauma.


                
I must have been six feet under myself, to have avoided this show for so long. Either I wasn't listening or I just didn't get it. After watching the pilot last night (Series one, episode one), I sunk into the couch and played the rest of the first disc's episodes straight through. I wouldn't normally go out on a limb and post on a show this early into watching it, but its beginning really seems to set up an emotional logic that will serve the director's purposes for the show's duration that I'm going to climb out there and see what comes to mind. In spite of its title, and its gimmick, the show is not about death. Yes, each episode kicks off when somebody kicks off (the big one; aka bites the dust, meets his maker, buys the farm up in the sky), but these are just dead people, not people who die. Since we're given their death at the beginning of an episode, we're not emotionally invested in what's happened to them. Instead, we'll become emotionally invested in what happens to the family as the death creates consequences requiring the family members' attention. So it's not really about death, it's about an afterlife. In fact the family's been given a second chance by the death of their father (I'm not spoiling anything here). His death is a gift, sacrifice perhaps so that in his absence, members of the family might consider their own lives seriously for the first time. Each of the family members is eccentric in his or her own right. This tells us we're watching HBO. Characters, for being eccentric, will each have a greater range of action and reaction for the reason that they're quirky. But in many other respects, the show is conservative. Though surrounded by death, the father's death gives the family a second shot at being a family. The first family was built on death, literally on the repression that bound a family to support a father's funereal existence. To individual family members, the family house was a funeral home. They were each living out a death sentence of sorts, whether by maintaining secrets, keeping the closet door locked, by lying about affairs, by struggling against conformity and family obligation while trying to be different.. In other words, the usual family dynamics!If what it took was for the father to die in order for this particular family home to confront its deathly service, then so be it, but it's a TV show. What makes this second life interesting is that we're given a family of idiosyncratic individuals. They're going to repair and remake the family on their own terms. Isn't this the blueprint of the socially conservative, or hopeful indie? That conventional social organization won't get us there; but individualism will. And individualism can rescue dying social institutions after all. We'll each have to make our own choices, but if we're true to ourselves and honest with each other, it can be done. The recent hit "Little Miss Sunshine" followed the same line: a VW bus, quirky in its own right with a clutch gone bad and failing horn, propels a family barely contained across hundreds of miles of imminent disaster to support the hopeless but lovable dream of its youngest family spirit. The genre is optimistic, probably as unrealistic as any other family drama, but at least optimistic. Not to mention just hilarious. So looking forward to the rest!


                
What can I say that has not already been said. I finally saw the whole thing on DVD. It is a must for any fan or anyone who has a remote interest in the series. Aside from superb acting, (even if there are some characters you may dislike) it contains a lot of real life situations, although a bit exaggerated at times (Claire's indifference, 'screw this life' attitude is a bit over the top, though well acted!) and the 'death du jour' are great but beware, if you've lived through a tough death with your family or close friend, it can be tough to see. I cried more than once! But it demystifies death and all the bonuses on the DVDs are great and give more insight into the story, why and characters (though never watched with audio commentary... find those annoying) Buy it, rent it, but watch it. It's simply brilliant. Better than 'Sex and the City' (of course this is drama, not comedy, though some situations are absurd...)


                
In the beginning it appears as if the series is slow and nothing is happening.But as you go forward and understand the characters, you start appreciating the pace and simplicity. I have become fan of Allan Ball after watching this series.He has created a master piece out of this series and has set up a bench mark for this genre.Can you create quality drama out of common ordinary person's life? Yes absolutely, you don't always require Kings and war neither assassins nor any criminal to chase.How life goes through ups and downs and how it changes by small small events is perfectly shown over the five seasons. The characters are slowly but superbly built as if you almost know each and every person in the show personally.It tries to explain meaning of life , and what motivates human to act. What and why emotions occur like fear, grief,excitement,jealousy,embarrassment, happiness,feel of death.It tries to go under the skin. Series finale the conclusion is one of the best and most disturbing yet satisfying.Just watch this series completely don't leave it in midways. Have patience and your dividends will be paid in full.


                
I think I was in love before the end of the opening credits. And I just never fell out of it during the whole 5 seasons. It's actually completely baffling to me how I could love a show this much while not liking a single character. And I'm usually a character person, I have watched entire shows and overlooked (most of) their faults for one single person that I absolutely loved. Not this one though. I don't like any of them. And the fact that despite this I was completely drawn in just shows how brilliant the show is. There's something so real and honest about it, it justs speaks to you, moves you. I guess I have to agree with people who call it free therapy. It also has the best, most satisfying end of any TV show I've seen so far.


                
Like many in here already have pointed out, this show is cast, directed, filmed and edited brilliantly. I just went thru all 5 seasons in a very short time span, and this is definitely a show that has the rare ability of truly getting under your skin and really make you feel all sorts of emotions. This is what good television and movies can - and very few do it as well as SFU. Having said this, one emotion I could have been without is the growing annoyance. The irritation and frustration over an almost total lack of personal development in many of the characters. Sure, they are all brilliantly portrayed as real, 3-dimensional persons, but apart from me really missing a genuinely sane person in the show (the closest I think is Keith) just for the sake of contrast to all the F'd up personalities - I really miss someone growing tired of status quo, saying "no", acting instead of thinking etc. I know this very fact is one of the main reasons why I loved this show - I feel involved and actually FEEL something when this or that person does X or Y. But it gets to be too much in the end. OK, so most families have issues, but even in the most dysfunctional family there is a few persons who actually change, take a stand, get enough etc. Even considering that "people never change" and "we are all creatures of habit".That lack of dynamics makes the show too Woody Allenish in the end. Too much talk and too little action. I actually ended up spending the last 6-7 episodes hoping someone would do something really drastic (and not just psychotic) - just to shake things up a bit.The end sequence with everyone growing old was not only poorly executed, it was unnecessary. Seeing the actors with ridiculous aging make-up and nappy, grey hair didn't do justice to the rest of this show. Seeing Claire driving off to NY would have sufficed IMO - at least then it would have ended with someone making a dramatic change in her life.Now I am a Dexter addict instead. Not as deep as SFU, but even more entertaining - and I must say Michael C Hall is now among my top 5 actors.
Six Feet Under should be divided into two separate camps: Seasons 1 and 2 fit nicely together in terms of theme and quality. The following three runs play out a little differently. Whereas the first couple of seasons dealt with a myriad of issues (death, obviously; closeted homosexuality; emotional repression; mental illness; drug use; fragile familial connections; sex addiction; corporate take-over; racism) the following three seasons went in a completely different direction and touched-- or lingered, rather-- on the subject of strained relationships (except for Claire's meandering art school storyline, which went nowhere.) Six Feet Under, in the beginning, appealed to a wider demographic than did latter seasons (hence the huge, Sopranos-like ratings and pop culture buzz the show generated, not to mention the critical lauding and record-setting award nominations.) This is not to say seasons three through five are without merit (indeed, the last four episodes of season three rank among the series' best) but as the series progressed, it became evident that something special was irretrievably lost. That said, the first twenty six episodes of this groundbreaking television series are solid, hour-long masterworks. You will not find a better familial drama that artfully blends pathos and humor in all of feature film OR television.


                
This is by far one of the best shows I've seen. As with every show, there were a few episodes that were dry but overall it was really good and I couldn't resist binge watching episodes! The shows final finale was by far one of the best I've ever seen, couldn't help but shed some tears. They tie everything together perfectly, I would deff rewatch this series


                
Not since Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman have I ever been so compelled to watch a non-fiction television series. I made the mistake of the power marathon over a long weekend watching ALL five seasons and going to sleep with that theme song in my poor little noodle. I could not stop watching, it was that engaging and stimulating. Of course there were many issues with the first season comparison but can you imagine American Beauty 2?? Of course not, hence the ability to continuously create story lines, magical celebrations of life and death would be equally intractable.I have been to several funeral homes to make arrangements for loved ones and do not believe that every customer would engage a complete stranger and spill every deep emotion and details portrayed in this series. I guess that is my one pointer for not showing a more realistic business like attitude that most customers would exhibit. I however have fallen completely apart at certain crucial ceremonies but never in the hands of a funeral director let alone assistant.I have never made any plans for my future demise but this series made me consider many choices. If I had my dream funeral it would have been the Puccini Nessun Dorma theatrical Turandot production, jaw dropping heartfelt emotional and visual tempest.I did find the gay couple sex overwhelming in the first season, despite my warm acceptance of Brokeback, and many other same sex relationship films. I feel they toned done those types of scenes in later seasons and was truly joyful during the wedding ceremony portrayed in the finales last moments.My favorite episode has to be the biker funeral with Nate inheriting his ticket to freedom and being on the road albeit with no helmet! As a rider who had to give up this hobby it was especially moving. Always superb music selections even to the end, had never heard of Sia.Still processing some of the symbolism, i.e. Nate jumping in his white suit with sunglasses rather out of context imho and Claire's wedding ceremony guests.I hope it will not take another 40 years to enjoy another phenomenal series. Guess I will have to settle for the Simpsons presently...sigh.
For as long as humanity can remember philosophers have been studying how the human mind works. One of the biggest ideas regarding this is that individuals learn in terms of opposition, that is, people learn concepts when confronted to their opposites. This way, people cannot identify good if there is no evil, neither can they see happiness if they do not know sadness. In 'Six Feet Under' we have a beautiful example of how that happens.Alan Ball explores the deepest meaning of life by showing us death in its most unpleasant forms. Raw, impersonal, and sometimes paradoxical, death introduces a series of questions about existence that we may never have wondered in everyday life. The series takes the audience to a place they may never have been. An uncomfortable one. Facing death is offered in 'Six Feet Under' as a way to face life itself. And it turns out to be the most useful of all.We must not forget the humanistic side of the story either. Beside the philosophical wanderings in the series, it exposes a handful of characters special by themselves yet relatable and open for the audience to explore. These characters are always pushed to the limit, dealing with difficulties and living among them in the best way they can. It is hard not to feel pity or sorry for them, or just wishing their lives went on differently.Many people, including me, have said that the series is too slow for modern times, or even that it becomes boring at some parts. However, the pace of the series is needed for the great ending to happen. It takes time to get to know these characters, to understand them, to be identified with them and to go hand in hand with them through their lives and events. This actually becomes the philosopher's stone of the story, as being attached to the characters is in the end what excites, moves and leads the audience to a state of shock and awe at the same time at the end of the story. The ending really gets you asking yourself plenty of questions about your own existence.In conclusion, 'Six Feet Under' is a life-changing series, worth the time and the journey. It teaches many lessons alongside the story, and it offers depth and landscape to questions that people do not very usually wonder and which are important in order to be taught the most important lesson in life: Life itself.


                
Alan Ball (American Beauty, True Blood) creates the most intriguing mortician family on TV. This is the dysfunctional Fisher family that runs an independent California funeral home. The father (Richard Jenkins) dies in a car crash, but continues to haunt the prodigal elder son Nate (Peter Krause) who must figure out how to manage the business.The show has an outstanding cast Michael C. Hall, Frances Conroy, Lauren Ambrose, Freddy Rodríguez, Mathew St. Patrick, and Rachel Griffiths. There is great chemistry between the actors. They have the feeling of a real family. The audience truly feels for the family. It isn't just a soap, or a dark comedy. This was at the vanguard of scripted cable drama. It reinforced the success of the Sopranos as the rise of cable over network TV as the home of more innovative interesting dramas.


                
Six Feet Under is a 5 seasons long section from the "ordinary" lives of Fisher family. While managing the family-owned funeral home, Fishers struggle with the past and present, under the guidance of their recently departed father. Finally it turns into a belated journey leading them to discover more about each other and themselves. The show never cease to throw existential dilemmas into viewer's face while just using simple/daily elements like break ups, fights and death.All the characters stand tall like a projection of Alan Ball's illustrious writing skills. Here, Frances Conroy should be mentioned separately. I don't hesitate to suggest that, those of you who like classic novels will be amazed how brilliant she is at depicting Ruth Fisher.Rachel Griffiths as Brenda Chenowith highly deserves admiration, too. With her attitude weird enough even for Six Feet Under universe, Ms. Chenowith will frequently put you somewhere around "hate to feel sympathy for her".Just ring the bell. Stuck between the Earth and six feet under, Fishers will let you in. One of the best of all television history with no doubt.


                
I just finished the finale and I just couldn't stop myself from writing this. I am listening to the ending song again as I write this.When the series started, I just loved how crazy it was, maybe I felt happy seeing someone suffer. But when a major character was about to die, this was the first time I really wanted the story to bring him back, and they did !I can clearly remember 2 episodes after which I just couldn't sleep those nights. My heart was beating so fast, I just couldn't sleep. No TV series has ever effected me this way. No, not even Game of Thrones. The hallmark of this show is sorrow and only sorrow, and they showed it in the most realistic and visceral way without any hope of light or happiness.


                
The first episode of Six Feet Under will get under your skin, especially if you don't know what you are exactly in for (as I wasn't). There are quite a few things shown in the show/series, that you know (even if you are not an US-resident) are absolutely taboo on the small screen. But being shown on cable (HBO), they can get away with almost anything. Which is good, because the show does not set itself any limits.Even if it could have been more graphic, what really grips you, is the humanity of it all. Sometimes the hopelessness and a few other themes, that run through life itself. But let's get back to that very first episode shall we?! It has one particular thing installed that you will only see in that pilot (I can't tell you, if it was shown on the original run on TV too, but it is some creepy and funny stuff).Apart from that and a very great character introduction (and more), one thing bothered me: The editing! I don't know if the DVD version was completely different, from what was shown on TV, but what I do know is, that the editing on the Pilot show, felt really weird ... in a bad sense. But that is nitpicking and I only mention it, just in case, you feel the same way after watching that pilot, don't be discouraged. No, on the contrary, you should keep watching the show, because once you go with the flow (and all the very adult themes, it does handle), you will be rewarded with one of the best television shows that have been produced (as far as I can tell and as the rating here shows too).And I haven't even mentioned the actors, the music, the cinematography and many other things, that make this a very unique, demanding and challenging view. To name a special episode, feels like betraying the show and it's concept. Every episode has it's arc (some more apparently so than others), but they all are interwoven into a big complex storyline, so that I can only recommend to watch the whole series.


                
In my opinion - It's the best Television Series that I ever watched. Initially, I had no interest in watching a TV Show which premise was a Funeral Home and and Death. In fact, I did not watch the entire 1st season.I eventually stumbled upon it one evening and realized my perception of the show were completely wrong. The family in the show lives were so interesting and diverse(the two brothers, younger sister and the Mother). More importantly, the "deaths" at the start of each episode (the storyline of each show) at times taught me valuable lessons on life.The characters in the shows lives were the primary reason I enjoyed the show so much. I would recommend anyone to purchase the entire series. Without question, it is the most "underated" and least known "great" Television Series ever.The last few episodes - in particular were classics. I wish HBO would bring it back in reruns. It was an exceptional Television Series.


                
Every character great but find myself fast forwarding through Claire scenes. It's not necessarily the performer but the character that is unbearable. Love the show otherwise.


                
I have never spent so many hours watching a show all the way from season 1 to 5. I felt a little sad afterward, as if I have known the Fisher family for a long time. In the end, they showed how each of the Fisher family member died in the future, that made me think about how I will die in the future. Maybe when I get older, I will watch this whole show again. Now they are truly gone forever.I think that the best part of the show was after Nate died. I can't stop watching till the end. It was so intense and captivating.It could be more fun if David had more gay encounters. Keith was a fine guy, but I would rather watching David trying to meet different cute guys.Ted seems to be a perfect boyfriend, he is not super cute, but he seems to be perfect for Claire. Joanna Cassidy was such a funny actress. She and Ruth are both mothers, but they are entirely different.The most memorable show was when David almost got killed by the hitchhiker. It was harsh that in the end, Diaz want to leave the funeral home and start on his own when the Fisher family just had a major death, but it is life.They could have changed the opening scenes every season, it got boring after a while. I really didn't like the idea of watching a show about death in the beginning, and especially when they showed those disfigured fake corpus on TV. Now if there is another similar show, I will definitely watch it.It was hard for me to realize that I will never see the Fisher family again, it must be even harder for all those people who worked for this show.


                
