First of all, let me just say that I consider Firefly to be the best TV show of all time, so I have absolutely nothing against Joss Whedon. But this... I'm just baffled by all the glowing reviews. The "humor" falls completely flat - from the very beginning you can just hear the jokes going "thud" as they hit the floor. The level of humor and storytelling seems to be aimed at... I dunno, two-year-olds? And it even misses that mark.I didn't laugh once at Neil Patrick Harris's annoyingly "in-on-the-joke" performance. Nathan Fillion at least adds a little energy to the otherwise lifeless proceedings when he's on screen, but he isn't much. Even as a huge fan of Firefly, I just don't get the love for this.


                
Okay, this was an internet film that was filmed in 6 days flat and released on iTunes. The trivia on IMDb boasts that it was the #1 selling iTunes season for 5 weeks. Does it hold up? I'm not gonna lie, it really is going to hurt.So what is the plot? Dr. Horrible wants to get into the Evil League Of Evil and get the girl of his dreams but his nemesis, Captain Hammer, has taken an interest in said girl and the Doctor tries to win her back while also assassinating Captain Hammer to get into the Evil League of Evil.As you can imagine, I have a laundry list of complaints. Okay the humor is just too stupid. I know it was meant to be stupid humor but singing how someone "smells like poo" sounds like something I'd expect to find in a comedy aimed at 6 year old's. What is the best joke out of the whole thing? Captain Hammer's said Hammer is his penis (as revealed in a conversation with Dr. Horrible)...and its all downhill from there.The absolute worst thing about this film (and that says a lot) is Felicia Day. I know that she was probably trying but she had no chemistry with Billy and no chemistry with Captain Hammer and to top it all off, her singing voice is as weak as the jokes. I mean okay, Dr. Horrible comes off as creepy, even in his "Billy" secret identity and Captain Hammer comes off as "I'm 100% perfect" type assholes, don't get me wrong that was the intention but if someone had to choose between these two, I sincerely hope to God that they'd choose neither.There are only 2 things salvageable about this film - it has a few halfway decent songs (Well...the first and last of the second act) and Nathan Fillion as Captain Hammer but thats because he plays it so over the top and even though he couldn't save the movie, he does provide the film with a leg to stand on outside of "the songs". To be honest, he acts like he didn't care for the part but that just elevated how great he was...not caring actually made a performance better. Those two things are the only solitary moments of entertainment I found in this film. Anything else, the writing, Neil Patrick Harris, the visual effects, the rest of the songs, the direction...it either ranges from awful to they looked like they had none of this to they looked like they were trying but not even they could save this (This last one only applies to NPH).Overall if you like this film, GREAT, I wont judge you but for me...this was 40 minutes of not caring, not being entertained and not laughing at any joke it was throwing at me. If you want what I'd call a funny internet movie, look up Suburban Knights or To Boldly Flee. Sure they're over 2 hours long but they still have something resembling jokes and satire. This lazily written and directed film...nope.


                
This slow-paced, weak-humored, poorly-scripted Comedy/Musical was the absolute dregs of "horrible" filmmaking.Yes. Horrible.The dumb, easily-forgettable songs were horrible.Superhero, Captain Hammer was horrible with his despicable mind-set on laying every woman that he possibly could.Precious Penny, the do-gooder, was horrible with her self-righteous crusade to help the homeless.And, last, but not least, the petty, sniveling, little stalker, Dr. Horrible was the most horrible one of all, with his boring, unfunny monologues and his pure vanity-boy, frost-tipped hair.This episode was only 45 minutes in length, but it dragged on with its horrible stupidity for what seemed like an eternity.Horrible..... ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE!!


                
