Kimberly Kmit Peter Faziani Eng- 151 November 15, 2012 Dr. Horrible's Horrible Short Blog I personally felt that Dr. Horrible sing along blog was silly. There were three main characters in the blog. Dr. Horrible who poses as an evil scientist, Captain Hammer who poses as the good guy, AKA, superhero and Penny who is comes across as very immature. Penny appears to be, very easily persuaded by others. The blog comes across kind of childish. Dr. Horrible wants to pull off a heist to obtain the wonderflonium which is the final piece he needs to complete his freeze ray gun. Dr. Horrible wants to stop time so he can take over the world, and be admired by his evil hero Bad Horse. Dr. Horrible has a terrible crush on Penny, whom he see's often at a local laundry mat but is too shy to introduce himself and talk with her. It seems rather silly for an evil scientist to be a character that is too shy to talk with a girl. Dr. Horrible was right in the middle of his heist for the wonderflonium, when Penny approaches him asking for his assistance regarding a homeless shelter that requires so many signatures for approval and his shyness looked more like stupidity to me. Captain Hammer swooped in and came across as though he had saved Penny from the fast moving van while throwing Penny into the trash to act as though he was moving her out of harm's way. Which Dr. Horrible was controlling the van with his remote control. Dr. Horrible actually stopped the van.Captain Hammer and Penny started dating and that is when I thought the movie got cheesy. I am not a musical movie watcher so it totally lost my interest at this point. Captain Hammer started to try and portray himself as a hero who does good things for people. I see him as being stuck on himself. Looking at himself and flexing his muscles. Captain Hammer's whole personality came across fake to me. I guess because I really do not care for people of that nature maybe it turned me off the entire short movie. The movie just seemed immature to me. It only seemed to get worse as it went on. All the people acting like he was some big hero and for what? What did he really do? I really did not see what he did that made him such a big hero. I thought the ending was sad. I really did not see Penny dieing as the way the blog would end and Dr. Horrible acting like nothing else mattered without her. I have watched worse movies but I would never watch it again just because. This review is my opinion and I am sure there are people who enjoyed it.


                
