When I first heard that science-fiction mastermind Joss Whedon was putting together an internet-launched serial that involved singing, low-budget superheroes, and Neil Patrick Harris, I was immediately intrigued at the strange prospect. As preposterous as it sounds, this thing actually works and I wouldn't be shocked at all to hear that Whedon's little experiment yields a profit on DVD revenues."Dr. Horrible" is about a man with that very name played by NPH who considers himself a villain and is only waiting to receive his official acceptance into a league of villains, though to do that he must succeed at an evil plan or most specifically, kill someone, neither of which he has been able to do. He also has a thing for Penny (Felicia Day), the girl at the laundromat he can never seem to talk to. It's a strange situation for a guy who considers himself evil to be in, but that's part of "Dr. Horrible's" uniqueness. In classic fashion, it is over-cocky hero Captain Hammer (Nathan Fillion who worked with Whedon on "Firefly") who seems to always interfere with both of Dr. Horrible's objectives: being evil and Penny.The music in this serial was probably the most surprising thing about it. The many Whedons that worked on this score really impressed me. I would consider owning a CD or downloading (legally of course) the songs. Though instrumentation was done entirely on electronic instruments, it's a good fit. While the songs and the plot don't always work seamlessly, there's a charm about the songs that makes them good anyway. They're modern songs in a sense, but they also are very structured like musical songs are.NPH and Fillion are great talents in these roles. Fillion is hysterical in his first go around at a real comedic role (that I can recall). I've always been fond of him and he earns the most laughs I would say. NPH gets the quirkiness but the sincerity of a very strange character who is definitely difficult to believe, at least on pure premise.This serial has a very interesting sense of humor too. It goes for a lot of subtlety jokes with people saying things that are absurd but that the other characters generally play dumb to. It's the right kind of humor for this kind of project though because the goal of the project is clearly to be unique.I wouldn't say "Dr. Horrible" is genius and ground-breaking, but I would say it's really quite good for being something that clearly was intended to have a low-budget look and feel. I definitely wanted to know what was going to happen next each time a new segment was posted, which is a credit to the writing. While I wouldn't run and tell all my friends about "Dr. Horrible," I would definitely recommend it to the right people who have an appreciation for projects that play small ball and look to do something different. ~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.blogspot.com/


                
Something that I have always felt,that has made all of Whedons classic TV shows stand out,is how they all break out of any of the so-called rules of the genre,by having "The dumb blonde" be smart & sassy (Buffy),a vampire who takes on a bunch of lawyers (Angel),a John Ford western set in space (firefly),and giving a personality to a very empty character (Dollhouse).When I was hearing about this short film,I went looking round like crazy to find it in a DVD shop near me.Sadly,I discovered that the DVD has not come out in the UK,which made me decide that I would try to import the disc in a few weeks.Luckaly for me,a friend of my dads surprisingly passed me the DVD,to keep!Whilst it does not reach the (almost) unreachable heights of Whedons stunning shows,I found it to be a fun short film.The Plot:Dr Horrible is a wannabe super-villain,who is desperate to become a member of the Evil League of Evil.To become a member,he makes a decision that he should build a death Rey to kill the local,macho egotistical super-hero Captain Hammer.Shockingly for Horrible,as he is gathering all the parts to the Rey gun,the girl from the laundrette (who he has had a big crush on for along time)seems to be getting very keen on hum...View on the film:Due to this film having inevitable problem of being compared to the incredible Once More with Feeling episode of Buffy.I feel that Whedon (who also co-wrote the film with his three brothers and Maurissa Tancharoen)dose a great attempt at equalling that episode,with an interesting use of electronic music mixed into the piano-led songs.Joss has also,very pleasingly,put his great funny dialogue into the script (the part where it is revealed why the super-hero is called Captain Hammer is very hard to forget!)The only parts that I think could have been a bit improved upon,would have been to give the laundrette girl a few more scenes,and for the ending to have been slightly longer,and not so rushed.Final view on the film:An entraining short film,with likable songs and a very good enjoyable script with some great Whedon dialogue.
A Whedon family (Joss, Zack, Jed plus Maurissa Tancharoen) web extravaganza (available on DVD), a musical. Perfect cast (Nathan Fillion, Felicia Day, Neill Patrick Harris and Simon Helberg). Typically Joss, bizarre story line. Nothing but off-the-wall farce. I give this web series a 7 (good) out of 10. {Musical Super Hero Farce}


                
For what it is I almost believe it was the best it could have ever been. Really really surprised. Soundtrack is absolutely awesome. I really liked it, found myself singing all the songs for whole week after. It has that amazing comedic yet tragic effect to really touch you. I always liked Neil Patrick Harris feel his eccentricity is always expressed wonderfully and this is no different. I am actually praying for a sequel. Captain Hammer is the perfect portrayal of the cliché superhero, with some ulterior motives. Watch it, It is short and their is bound to be something in it you will love.


                
What all blogs should be like. Neil Patrick Harris is hit or miss for me. I think he's always at his best when his performances have certain musical aspects, so I'm quite satisfied with his efforts in this fine little miniseries.The first act starts strongly with Dr. Horrible being his non-famous self having a crush on a girl he sees at the laundromat, but being too shy to talk to her. No worries though, he's just a few weeks away from real audible connection. At the end of it, we get to know Horrible's opponent Captain Hammer, as testosterone-filled as unlikable, who puts in a nice duet with Penny, Horrible's crush. On a side-note, Simon Helberg plays the friend to a guy crushing on a girl named Penny. I've heard that one before.Second act was the highlight of the whole thing. It starts right away with a beautiful (non-)duet of Horrible and Penny and resembles a lot Whedon's spectacular Buffy episode "Once more with Feeling". Thumbs up also for "I ordered one frozen yogurt and they gave me 2" Penny grows closer to both guys and NPH ends the act with a powerful "Brand new day".Unfortunately the level sinks a bit in the last act. As goofy as the whole song was, the chorus from "Everyone's a Hero in their own way" really stays in your head. Also, this act is the first time where Dr. Horrible really seems like a villain. Admittedly the first two acts he seemed more like a comic-con nerd. With this change in character, also the ending was completely not what you expected.Nonetheless, I'd recommend it. I really hope Neil Patrick Harris can score a role à la Jackman's Valjean in the next years. He really has it all to give one of the most impressive musical performances of the 21st century.
This is my first taste of pure Whedon after watching The Avengers and a bit of Firefly which didn't grab me. The first act of Dr. Horrible is just incredible storytelling, especially in setting up the creative world, the conflicts and the inner conflicts. Very inspirational, in particular how it works in all these little payoffs within the buildup. It has a fantastic pace and a real witty affection in the writing. However, it does have a very sloppy production, even for an internet series, I noticed a lot of boom shadow and reflections which were quite distracting, as did the moments where it felt like the actors hearts weren't really in it, or maybe it's just really hard to get the perfect lip sync take.The second act was even funnier, developing the concept in a better twisted way. It doesn't have the structure of the first act, with a slower pace and looser scenes, that keeps it tight and engaging, but the character interaction makes it worth it. Act three was mostly good for Nathan Fillion's character's arrogance and the cast's improved confidence with the singing, particularly Neil Patrick Harris. But I found myself somewhat disappointed by the ending, even if it was just to set it up for a sequel, as it didn't seem like an adequate payoff for what it set up. If it had kept the pace and restraint of the first act, with the spirit of the latter acts, then it could have been a lot better, especially with the fantastic concept. Maybe production value and more time will allow this project to grow in future carnations. 7/10


                
The moment I saw the cover of this film I said to myself "This is going to be a 'new turn' on a TV movie, but like majority of these types of TV movies, it will fail in the long run". But to my surprise, I saw the film as a big success, conquering in originality and humor. Pros: The movie had a well-balance of humor and action. Neil Patrick Harris's humor was brilliant but not overdone as well as the action in the film. And surprisingly, Nathan Fillion was the lovable cocky jerk whom I thought stole the show. The songs used in the film were catchy and fun. Also, who knew a harmony between Nathan Fillion and Neil Patrick Harris would work so well?I can't compare the plot to anything I have seen before because in all honesty, there has never been a plot I've seen so close to it. This is a rare film in which the audience will cheer the a lovable villain during his journey.With only a 45 minute run time, the story goes over a lot without a drag to the film. Cons:Although the plot is great, I feel that there is a significant amount of plot holes in the storyline. I definitely pose questions about Dr. Horrible's and Captain Hammer's life and hope both character's stories will be unraveled in a sequel or prequel. Conclusion: This film is great for ages over 12, and is enjoyable for the whole family. I give this film a 7 out of 10 because of it's original but lacks in detail. I highly recommend this film if your looking for a quick humor and melodious movie.


                
There are some fun songs, Neil Patrick Harris is charming, and everything works out for the best. What more can you ask. This is a lightweight little thing put out purely tongue in cheek and involving a small part of brain power. It has a convoluted boy meets girl plot which uses bizarre characters to tell a nice little story. Harris mugs and comments and has his own demons, so to speak. Apparently there is some history with the bad guy, but we really don't care. Add this to movies like "Rocky Horror Picture Show" where we involve ourselves in a few catchy tunes and a very strange spectacle. We don't want to admit it, but we kind of like it.


                
I sort of expected more from this, but as it is, it's pretty entertaining, and most of the songs are instantly catchy and able to be sang out loud, not to mention pretty memorable. The three leads are great, especially Fillion though, who really marvels in his character's darkness and gleefulness, reminding us of his Firefly character but also giving that sort of role a different spin. He's a very underrated actor who I wish would get more work. Patrick Harris, though, is the best singer and probably has the best songs. Some of the turns in its final act are pretty surprising, and not at all what I'm sure many expect (well, maybe from Joss Whedon).


                
