"With the help of a courageous fellowship of friends and allies, Frodo embarks on a perilous mission to destroy the legendary 'One Ring'. Hunting Frodo are servants of the Dark Lord Sauron, the Ring's evil creator. If Sauron reclaims the Ring, Middle-earth is doomed," according to the DVD sleeve description, "Winner of four 'Academy Awards', this epic tale of good versus evil, friendship and sacrifice will transport you to a world beyond imagination." Reading the original J.R.R. Tolkien novels was an intellectual rite of passage; whilst young, you read and enjoyed "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy willingly - prepping with "The Hobbit", of course. "It's a job that's never started that takes the longest to finish," someone said. Writer/director Peter Jackson's "The Fellowship of the Ring" is the first of an extremely well-produced trilogy. Understandably, it's made into a special effects extravaganza, without taking many breaths for thoughtfulness."The Bridge of Khazad-Dûm" (#30 on your DVD menu) sequence is a highlight; it climaxes with the wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen) and the demonic Balrog (CGI) falling into an abyss, from which return seemed impossible This was one of my most memorable "Lord of the Rings" reading experiences - a future without Gandalf was unimaginable. Mr. Jackson and company recreate some emotional scenes extraordinarily well. At one time, it seemed impossible to think that such literature could be brought to cinematic form.******** The Fellowship of the Ring (12/10/01) Peter Jackson ~ Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Orlando Bloom


                
Co-writer and producer/director Peter Jackson has masterfully transferred J.R.R. Tolkien's first chronical in his infamous trilogy into an absorbing, interesting and above all awesome picture.  It is quite long, which is the film's only downside, but then in order to tell Tolkien's tale properly as many details would be necessary, thus it is never boring. 
This first epic starts off Frodo Biggins (Elijah Wood) on his dangerous yet crucial quest along with others like Gandolf (Ian McKellan) and Strider (Viggo Mortensen) to bring the rings back to which the fire it came from. The plot is important, but that isn't the key thing about the film that will intrigue most non-fans on Tolkien (fans of Tolkien make this a must see by the way).  The picture has so much visual splendor matched with constant (yet not too constant) suspense, action and battles that it is hard to complain about the few lulls.  Not the best epic fantasy I've, but it could be up there.  Big props go to McKellan by the way for giving one of his best performances to date with Gandolf, though the other performances are also noteworthy. A


                
I went to school in the 1950s and 1960s. I never read "The Hobbit" nor any of the "Ring" trilogies. So I only had a vague idea what Tolkien and his writings were all about, although I already knew there were "Ring" fanatics of all ages out there. I got a "free" DVD as a result of the Blockbuster campaign where you buy a 10-week rental card for $25 and get a DVD in return at no extra cost. A deal I couldn't refuse!Well, last night I watched the film, along with good friends Frank and Judy who happen to be "Ringheads." The filming was absolutely gorgeous. The DVD transfer is about the best I have seen so far, and the Dolby 5.1 sound is very dynamic and beautiful. In short about all one could ask for in a DVD. Plus, there is a second disk which has over two hours of "extras", several "making of" plus a 10-minute preview of the second installment due out later this year. While the movie itself is very interesting, especially the first one-third which sets the stage for the journey that "the fellowship of the ring" will undertake, to ultimately return the "one ring" to the volcano, NEVER did I feel that this was a "great" film. As the story unfolds there are increasingly brutal battles to be fought, one after another, with little story between each battle. While that may make for really good reading, where you can create exactly the images you want in your own mind, as a film it gets to be a bit much. I actually became bored, with yet another battle and narrow escape. Like adding too much spice to a good meal.As a film of a historic work of fiction, and especially this DVD release, it is almost perfect.  However, as a fictional work the story is a bit of a let-down, in my opinion. It is best appreciated by all the "Ringheads" out there who have bonded over the years with the ring trilogy and Tolkien. For my own enjoyment there are more interesting fictional works. Maybe I'll have a different opinion in two years, after I've seen all three of the installments.


                
Unlike most people, i wasn't trying to be first in the queue to see this film, I have never read the books and wasn't taken in by the hype. When i finally saw this film, i was impressed with the visuals, but found the story disjointed (clearly 3 hours isn't long enough to build the characters and portray the story in the way the books do) For fans of the books, i appreciate that you've all been waiting a long time for this trilogy, and i can see, without reading the books that they have done a good job at bringing the books to life. My criticism is this, for people who don't know the characters and the story, the film misses out too much content that i'm sure must be in the books.That aside i watched it again and have to admit that it grew on me, i got into the characters a little more and found an enjoyable movie with some masterful visual effects.8/10


                
Although it may not be entirely faithful to the book, Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy perfectly captures the essence of J.R.R. Tolkein's fantasy classic: it's magical, imaginative and completely unforgettable, but also extremely long and a little hard going at times. Those who stay the distance, however, seem to agree that a bit of perseverance is well worth it in the end.The Fellowship of the Ring is perhaps the most laborious of the three films, what with the setting up of the plot, the introduction of a multitude of characters, and several talky scenes eating into the 171 minutes running time, but thankfully the film's impressive fantasy fighting action, breath-taking scenery, and amazing performances more than make up for the duller moments.All in all, I found The Fellowship of the Ring to be an admirable start for this ambitious attempt at bringing Tolkein's complex fantasy epic to the screen.


                
It has been tossed around in Hollywood for a long time. The very idea of making a big-budget feature film of the timeless novels is intoxicating. But how do you create a film that is true to the stories (and thus not going to upset the legions of rabid fans that can practically quote the books from start to finish) and still make a film that will attract the non-rabid fan who has vaguely heard of the existence of these books by some author from World War I? Well, I do not claim to be a rabid fan (I read the books, I liked the books, and have felt for a long time that they could make a good movie). I also do not claim to be some sort of insider that can give someone the secret tot he process that lead to this masterpiece. But i can say that not since _The Godfather_ have I been this impressed with the overall production values of a movie. The cast, crew, writers, producers, and very talented director managed to tell a very good version of the first book's tale......and as an adaptation, I give the movie a "9/10" (perhaps even as high as "9.5/10") -- but as a stand-alone film, it has to drop to "8/10" because the film leaves you hanging (much as the books did) at the end with no resolution to *anything* what-so-ever.Additionally, there is no telling at all the story of "why" the various people met in the Elfin lands to discuss this powerful ring; and the tale of Boromir (an important one, indeed) is not explained so that his betrayal and fate can be understood. It is one of those points that, without it, cause one to not really understand the actions this poor man takes in the film.Still, despite these shortcomings, the film is a fantastic piece of work that I highly recommend to anyone and everyone. But: I recommend that you watch the extended cut DVD version, and that you plan to sit down for all three films -- because this is not (technically) a stand-alone film. It is just Act 1 of a 3 Act screenplay.
I liked almost everything about this movie. The actors, the effects, the costumes and the story (of course). But they had added like half an hour to the movie which I found very unnecessary and haughty. Movies are the best when you watch them at the cinema, but i don't want to sit still for three hours if it isn't really necessary. So the fact that they had added 30 unnecessary minutes bothered me a lot. But except that, it's a very good movie.


                
I must admit of all the movies out there Lord of the rings was on my list of "don't go sees". The reason was simple. I had no interest in the lord of the rings(books) nor did I care to see a movie based on any of them. But a good friend of mine insisted that I go-and so amidst many a mumble and grumble on my part I acompanied this friend to the movie theatre silently gloating over how I would prove my friend wrong when I hated the movie as much as I envisioned.MY FRIEND HAD THE LAST LAUGH.I was wrong-way wrong on this one and will say right here that if someone with as little interest in the Lord of the Rings Saga as me could fall in love with a pic like this anyone can-and I do mean ANYONE-so SEE IT if you haven't!I'm not gonna get into reviewing plots or anything like that. Here is what I will say: Aside from the fact The movie is engaging, wonderfully written and acted etc etc, the people responsible for the technical visual aspects of Lord of the rings are geniuses. The visuals in this movie are technically amazing, breathtaking, and are so intricate you wonder how HUMAN BEINGS could actually put something like this together. At the very least even if you don't like the film(which is doubtful) your mouth will be hanging open at the sheer ARTISTRY of the film. I think Lord of the Rings is the type of movie that could inspire someone to start a career in movie making.
Lastly, I will say one of my pet peeves is movies that run a long time and don't seem to end. Lord of the rings had a long running time which was one other worry of mine when viewing this movie. WELL-the time passes so quickly it barely feels like half the time has gone by. And during that time there are very few moments one will actually be bored.So all in all, I have to recomend Rings. Probebly most people reading this have seen it already but in case there's that one person who, like me is a skeptic, check the movie out. Because you DO NOT have to be a Lord of the Rings(book) longtime fan to REALLY enjoy this movie.


                
Lord of the rings could be one of the best film in the history for many reasons.1.The direct transcription Book-Film:In the film all the details that appear in the book appear also in the film 2.Great Roles Great Actors and Actresses:Elijah Wood is the perfect hobbit,Ian it´s the perfect Gandalf and Cate Blanchet Is supreme. 3 THE O.S.T. Enya make a magic sound in her lyrics and the rest of the perfomance are excellent 4 THE SPIRIT OF A GREAT STORY The masterpieces of Tolkien could Make you feel well or Bad but This Film is perfectSENTENCE: SIMPLY THE BEST


                
Director Peter Jackson has not only attempted the most ambitious film project in modern cinema history, he's pulled it off with a breathtaking mixture of nerve and verve, too.


                
{This review is for the 178-minute theatrical version.}The first installment of Peter Jackson's famous fantasy trilogy, "The Fellowship Of The Ring" may not give you the entire journey, but it's a pretty terrific engine-revving.Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) is a hobbit whose quiet, pastoral life in an unregarded corner of Middle Earth changes abruptly when he is entrusted with a Ring of Power which carries with it the power of ultimate evil. To save Middle Earth, he must destroy the Ring by casting it into the fiery pit where it was made – with or without the aid of various companions."Even the smallest person can change the course of the future," Frodo is told, and that is the message of "Fellowship" in a nutshell. Hope is precious, no matter how frail the vessel.Nothing frail about "Fellowship Of The Ring," which is designed to impress and succeeds magnificently. The visual design is as splendid as it is varied, not just the lush New Zealand countryside that gets such deserved attention but the snowy mountaintops and grim, bone-laden mine shafts Frodo's party must traverse.Also impressive is the way Jackson and co-screenwriters Fran Walsh and Philippa Boyens recapture the scope and grandeur of the first book in J. R. R. Tolkien's "Lord Of The Rings" trilogy, while still delivering digestible cinematic entertainment. There are notable trims from the novel, and some twists, but the focus on Frodo's burden and his quest are if anything stronger than what Tolkien gives you, and makes for a ripping good yarn.The film is not a stand-alone entertainment; you need to see it in concert with the other two LOTR films, and that's not always to its advantage. Often you get lots of exposition regarding entities like "Emyn Muil" or "Argonath" which are obviously inserted to please the Tolkien faithful at risk of alienating outsiders like me. Other things annoy me, like a slow opening section introducing Frodo and his shire and Cate Blanchett's too sly and arch performance as an elven queen, but what's good is much, much better.Ian McKellen is splendid centering affairs as the mighty wizard Gandalf, while Wood and Sean Astin as his sidekick Sam showcase solid chemistry. Viggo Mortensen is the glue of the film, and a uniquely capable man of action as Strider. Orlando Bloom and Liv Tyler may be too pretty for me to like under normal circumstances, but here they manage to be load-bearing and brilliant.The score, the CGI, the ugly orcs; there's not a frame of this film that doesn't reflect thought and care. "Fellowship" proves quite a trip, and the best news is there's much more to come. Frodo's pain is your gain.


                
Watched The Lord Of The Rings:The Fellowship Of The Ring with Elijah Wood(Flipper) as Frodo Baggins, Sean Astin(The Goonies) as Samwise Gamgee ,Dominic Monaghan(Lost) as Meridoc Brandybuck,Billy Boyd(Master And Commander:Far Side Of The World) as Pippin, John Rhys-Davies(Indiana Jones Raiders Of The Lost Ark) as Gimili ,Sean Bean( GoldenEye) as Boromir ,Viggo Mortensen(Hildalgo) as Aragorn , Orlando Bloom (Pirates Of The Carribbean:Curse Of The Black Pearl)as Legolas Greenleaf, The Lovely Adian Turner(The Mortal Insruments City Of Bones) as Kili,Ian Holm(The Fifth Element) as Bilbo Baggins, Hugo Weaving(Transformers) as Elrond , The Lovely Cate Blanchett(The Life Aquatic) as Galadriel ,Christopher Lee(Dracula) as Saruman, Andy Serkis(Rise Of The Planet Of The Apes) as Gollum and Sir Ian McKellen(Stardust) as Gandalf The Grey . The film is about Fordo Baggins who gets entrusted with One Ring but an Evil is steadily returning to reclaim it Frodo must get to Mount Doom where the Ring will must be destroyed also I really Enjoyed The Characters they're all likable and you get attached. Great Music By Howard Shore(Hugo), Cinematography By Andrew Lesnie(The Last Airbender) , Costume Design By Ngailia Dickson(The Last Samurai) and Direction By Peter Jackson(King Kong) An Amazing Start to Middle Earth Saga 8/10


                
This movie is a classic, even though it is not much more than a decade old. The story is already a classic, which is probably why this, the first of the trilogy, was so much more successful than most other films in its position. Another reason why it probably got a lot of attention and success was because of the visual effects breakthrough marked by this movie. Having seen it in for the first time in 2010, I must say that the effects were as good as anything else I had seen at that point. In short, the CGI of the movie did nothing to impact my great appreciation and liking for this series. The story, as stated before, is a classic and will be admired for centuries to come, however, as with most classic books, Tolkein's style has lost its original appeal with the changing tastes of the literary audience. I think it is a great relief to most fans that the theatrical production of the books has the same spirit and some of the same style that Tolkien put into it, but also has modern touches that make it a best of both worlds, because honestly, I find the text's descriptions of the epic battle scenes to be rather dull when they are actually amazing. Neither style seems to interfere with the others, and the movies are widely regarded as masterpieces equal to the books. Unfortunately, the new Hobbit movies do not have that same balance, though they are still well done and successful thus far. As to the execution, there aren't many flaws. Howard Shore's score fits the mood perfectly with songs creating feelings of suspense, adventure, menace, and tranquility. Of course, the effects are as good as they get even by today's standards. The cinematography has a distinct style not found anywhere else, but flows well in the various series of shots. The script keeps the dignity of Tolkien's original text, but is briefer than the book, as it should be. I find the acting to be satisfactory, though Ian Holm doesn't always make the best transitions from the cheerful Bilbo to the slightly possessed Bilbo. Every character is given a moment of heroism, if not in the first movie, then in one of the other two. The character that is most impressive in this regard is Boromir. He is only included in the plot for about an hour and a half, which isn't that long considering that he is a supporting role and only has a brief introduction. His character is developed naturally but distinctively in very few scenes. Nothing he does at the end is at all incongruent with what we have seen up to that point. The same can be said of Sauroman, though his villainy is easier to get across with his fight scene with Gandalf and his incredibly menacing voice that pronounces all of the strange names of Middle Earth perfectly. I personally wan't thrilled with Elijah Woods performance, but it wasn't really bad. The same could be easily said about any of the main actors. There is no actor whose performance stands out on either end of the spectrum. Finally, I will address the action. It is primarily an adventure film. There is a pretty well spread amount of action scenes throughout, but most of the ones from the first half are flashbacks, so they don't have the same effect as the ones that come later. Still, it is all well choreographed and lives up to the PG-13 certification of "epic battle sequences", with the emphasis on epic. To close, I would recommend the movie to anyone who likes fantasy action or The Lord of the Rings books. It is very serious, so don't watch it with a big group unless that group is interested in the movie instead of socializing. The elephant in the room is that the movie is extremely long, so if you refuse to dedicate three hours in any variations of division to one movie, watch the cartoon version. Overall Rating: 9.5/10
Sun isn't going to shining anytime. Sauron opened his eye and he is looking for ring. What is the ring? What is its skill? If you want to listen this, i will explain it.Story of the ring was starting when Dark Lord Sauron made the ring. Sauron wears his ring and goes to war. Isildur cuts the ring from Sauron's finger and Sauron loses. Isildur killed in the River Anduin and the ring was lost. Gollum is finding it. He called it 'my precious'. It was story of the ring. Dark Lord Sauron found the Gollum and he learned the ring is in Shire and Baggins's house. Fellowship members have a Baggins... Frodo Baggins. Frodo is half-ling but he is the first enemy for Dark Lord Sauron. Sauron won't be loser again.
Let me start off by saying Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring is a GREAT and splendid movie. It has a close eye on details and is so very consistent in its universe, making it almost impossible to compare it with other adventure movies (Star Wars might be an exception!). I haven't read any of Tolkien's books, but I have been told that it really follows the book nice, leaving some elements that would make the already 3 hour long movie into a 5 hour long movie. The actors haven been chosen carefully, no hotshot Hollywood actors, which was good. Elijah Wood was excellent as Frodo and Ian McKellen was great as Gandalf. Viggo Mortensen also did a good job (well, I had to say this since he's from the same country as me). The special effects were fairish, neither astounding nor incredible. The action scenes were good, although sometimes confusing which was a shame; after all they did work on this movie for quite some time.
On the whole, it's a kicksass adventure movie, one of the best in the genre of all time and a great start for the trilogy. 9,5 out of 10


                
The Lord of the Rings narrates the story of the inevitable battle between good and evil and how 'even the smallest person can change the course of the future'. It is the essential story needed to fuel the fire of hope in the hearts of the people who have given in to despair and death in this age. It is masterfully brought to the screen through the direction and artistry of Peter Jackson. Beautiful and haunting are the imagery and the atmosphere set by Jackson for Middle Earth. The music is also very commendable and mixed with the impeccable direction of each and every scene delivers a masterpiece again and again. The landscape of New Zealand is perfect and might as well be called Middle Earth instead. The Shire, Rivendell, the falls of Rauros, the forest of Lothlorien and the Mines of Moria, how did they all wind up inside New Zealand?! I must say that many scenes had me holding on to the edge of my seat and the scene with the Nazgul was especially evocative. Seeing the hooded figures pierce the darkness, cloaked and shrouded in shadow while the spine chilling music roared on left me in a state of fear and ecstasy. Another scene that was especially poignant was the confrontation between the Balrog and Gandalf. The fiery demon could not have been shown more perfectly than it was here. Its fell sword and whip of many throngs wreathed in shadow and flame were intimidating to say the least. Gandalf's monologue and his selfless sacrifice was heart melting to watch. Yet another instance at which I was very impressed was when Frodo is told by Gandalf that "All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us." It is perhaps the most powerful line the whole book series; although placed differently than it was in the book, it still packs a powerful punch. Finally Boromir's fall at the hands of the Uruk Hai was tearful to watch and the inevitability of his death coupled with his salvation and repentance was wonderful. In the end I would only like to further praise Peter Jackson for bringing together some highly underused actors of this generation and some of the forgotten actors of the last generation as well as for giving new faces a chance. I hardly think any of the entire cast will get to work on a project so massive, so magical or so important in their entire lives and that includes the Indiana Jones franchise that John-Rhys Davies was a part of.
The Fellowship of the Ring is quite astounding. Having known and loved the books, I looked at this film with raised eyebrows. However, after seeing it, I came out with a dropped jaw.The first few minutes alone just blew me away. Lord the Rings is a very complicated and a lesser director than Peter Jackson would have gone straight in on the Party and got the audience unredeemable lost. However, Peter Jackson did not do this. He used the wonderfully mystic voice of Cate Blanchett to do a superb prologue that really does give all the information needed. The moment I heard here say "The world is changed..." I knew it was going to be a treat.On a Tolkien fan level, it was just so amazing to see all of Tolkien's wonderful come to life on screen - and so vividly. And on a film-goer experience I loved the film, and was entertained on a sophisticated and never the less exciting level. The casting and acting was just superb. Ian McKellen, Elijah Wood, Viggo Mortensen, John Rhys-Davies, Ian Holm, Cate Blanchett, Sean Bean, Liv Tyler and Hugo Weaving were excellent as their respective characters, bringing Tolkien's creations to life. I think Ian McKellen as Gandalf should get a special mention, as I think he brought Gandalf to life perfectly. He portrayed his caring, kind, intelligent yet wise personality brilliantly.The story was told well, and New Zealand provided an excellent backdrop for the film. Peter Jackson certainly knows how to interpret the book in an audience friendly manner. Importantly though, I found that there was enough mention of other Tolkien elements to make it similar to the book, especially in the extended version.


                
I know it's not fashionable at this time, but I do consider this to be my favorite one in the series.The introduction of the shire was very well done, and magical. The opening scene between Frodo and Gandalf had a lot of personality; thematic without being preachy, and setting up ideas without giving too much of the plot away. Gandalf and Bilbo played off each other brilliantly. The special effects (especially with demonstrating the size difference of the various species) was impressive, without being distracting. And Bilbo's birthday was fun and lighthearted, but still with the sinister undertone foreboding the future turmoil. At this stage in the story, I was well on my way to putting the series in my top 100 list; but subsequent scenes and the later movies caused me to lower my rating a fraction. Still - the trilogy overall gets an 8/10 from me.I am very impressed by Peter Jackson with his effective mixture of humor and suspense/horror. I rank the dinner scene between Pippin and Merry as one of the best comic relief moments in a non-comic story ever. And Sean Astin's Samwise had the same serio-comic mixture, spot on perfect. (I always knew Sean had a good knack for doing both comedy and drama - he's always demonstrated it).A few minor quibbles I had with this movie were Frodo's gratuitous cameo shot in the party scene - which I felt looked staged and forced; and the very heavy-handed thematic speeches in the climactic discussion between Frodo and Boromir (premonition to the way-too-much moralizing in the city scene of THE TWO TOWERS).Yeah, I know this is a serious fantasy, and it's very important for characters to make thematic statements in order for the intelligentsia to justify telling a fictional story (apparently); but really, do you have to be so bleedin' obvious about it?! Can't you give the viewers a little credit for working out the underlying themes for themselves, without totally spoon-feeding us on every psychological nuance with the subtlety of a sledgehammer? Honestly, most summer blockbusters can get away with the barest minimum of character development, and a lot of viewers still follow the storyline pretty closely anyway. Not all of us are dumb popcorn-munching idiots!Anyway, griping aside; this is still great epic storytelling. The casting, the art direction and the pacing are (in the main) top quality. It was great intelligent entertainment! After all, this is the most critically-acclaimed popularly entertaining film trilogy of all time - and deservedly so!!!


                
So, cutting through all the hype, and considering it as both a book adaptation and a film its its own right, has the Fellowship come up to scratch.Seeing lots of trailers and posters for this through the last half of the year, my first reaction was 'hmm, looks good'. I've always counted the trilogy LOTR as my favourite book(s) and so I couldn't possibly miss this film adaptation.Casting: I had reservations about Elijah Wood - for one thing, he's too young. Frodo was in his fiftieth year before he even went on the quest. *But* having said that Wood does convey some of the feeling that a small half-size hobbit would probably feel in dangerous surroundings - he acts a lot with his eyes and by the end of the film you are really interested in this little creature and his destiny. Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee as the old wizards were perfect - I really couldn't imagine better casting and if Sean Connery really was ever in the running as Gandalf then the producers must have been mad. Viggo Mortensen and Sean Bean as the mortals - I always had a bit of a thing for Aragorn and this version is just fine; and Bean's portrayal of Boromir by the end of the film (actually an event from The Two Towers) works very well. The other hobbits and the elves are not drawn as well, perhaps this will be rectified in later films. But John Rhys-Davies's Gimli is just as you would imagine a dwarf to be in the pages of Tolkien. And the girls (Arwen - Liv Tyler, Galadriel - Cate Blanchett) are a bit more than the token decoration they were in the original book. Ian Holm is an acceptable Bilbo - again I had some doubt about his casting but I needn't have worried.Script - is fairly strong and moves along well. The only sticking point was 'let's go hunt some orc' but you can forgive a tiny lapse. Most of it is poetic, compelling, etc etc. All the major clichés when you really can't fault something.Camera-work and FX - exceptional. That sweep over little villages, the battle scenes (the opening battle even better than the fire throwers in Gladiator), the colour and the sense of the piece. I couldn't fault the Shire, Rivendell, the dark mines, or any of the rest of it.In conclusion, this lives up to the hype and more. It misses the humour of the opening chapters of Fellowship in part, but this is a small quibble indeed for such a great movie which could eat Harry Potter for breakfast. Go and see it. I can't praise it any higher than that.


                
My theory with the Lord Of The Rings films has always been that the stuff that is good gets better with each film, but the stuff that doesn't work as well unfortunately gets worse. For film 1 of the original trilogy this means that we get some of the most memorable scenes of the whole series during Act 2, but overall the best is yet to come in films 2 and 3.


                
Swiftly paced and fully developed, grand-scaled yet intimate, The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring provides an excellent start to a series of films that would only increase in stakes, quality, and craftsmanship. From its beginnings in the Shire, to its unceasingly dangerous world of orcs, goblins and dark forces, the film increases in spectacle, glory, and engagement as it progresses. It is a remarkable first chapter of one of cinema's most remarkable series, and it is a beautiful imagining of one of fiction's greatest tales.


                
It was so fascinating watching LOTR series while I was a kiddo. The Middle Earth fantasy amazes me. The movie made it better. RIP J.R.R. Tolkien who made it real.


                
This movie is good actually.
It's and enjoyable fantasy adventure that will give you a fun ride.
It has some pacing issues at the beginning of the movie but after like 1 hour or so the movie get's better with it's pacing.
The action is well done and i enjoyed it throughout the movie.
But there is this one problem with the movie which i will talk about.CHARACTERS
The characters are very weak.
Frodo is a weak protagonist, Sam is barely there in the movie. Mary and Pippin are weak characters and pretty much all of the gang are weakly written.
But i'll give it the benefit of the doubt that they will be developed on the second and third movie and this movie had clearly story driven characters cause Frodo is kind of a passive character.
Frodo made about two choices in the movie.
The first one that starts the adventure, that choice was so that he could survive and that the world would go under and that gandalf told him to make that choice.
The second one was Frodo decided all by himself but the rest of the movie Frodo and all the other characters are let stuff happen to them which makes them passive.
It's nothing wrong with that and they could do alot to change that anyways but they should have atleast gave all the characters a little more depth not a lot but just a little.
And i think Frodo should have somewhat changed in the first movie like for example he is going a little bit more crazy cause of the ring but i believe that they would keep that in the sequel and i am sure that the sequel is going to be better than the first one.VERDICT
Overall a solid movie with some problems but they aren't major problems and i recommend this movie
This review contains spoilers.The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring premiered in 2001 and is the first part to the The Lord of the Rings trilogy. The movie is based off of the novel by JRR Tolkien of the same name. The movie follows Frodo Baggins, played by Elijah Wood, as he discovers a magic ring belonging to his uncle Bilbo Baggins.The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring is a classic movie based on a classic book. This movie harkens back to an era of film-making similar to an epic. This movie has everything that composes an epic movie. The movie has a large cast of diverse characters. The movie has a long journey that is started but not completed by the end of the movie. The movie features large sweeping angles courtesy of the director Peter Jackson. This movie makes great use of being the first part of a movie trilogy by setting itself up well.The movie feels well thought out with its pacing. The movie is a lengthy one at 178 minutes for the theatrical cut. The movie uses this time to develop the characters and setting. Any fans of the book will enjoy seeing the writings realized on film. It is impressive seeing The Shire, Rivendell, and Isengard. However this movie is not completely accurate to the book, I would still consider this movie a faithful adaptation.The casting is absolutely perfect. Every actor and actress fits their role so well that it is hard to imagine anyone else playing the role. Sir Ian McKellen is perfect as Gandalf. Viggo Mortensen does a great job as Aragorn. There are no weak casting choices in this movie.The actual plot of this movie is simple and easy to follow. The movie follows Frodo Baggins as the Fellowship of the Ring is formed and dissolved. This is a strength of the movie as this simple plot is still executed well. I have always believed that the Lord of the Rings did well with world building rather than the immediate plot. That is reflected here with how this movie is presented and directed.The extended cut of the Fellowship of the Ring is highly recommended. This extended cut adds so much to the movie that I recommend watching this cut instead of the Theatrical cut.Overall I would highly recommend The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring.Four stars out of four stars.
Heavy and mysterious story and epic work such as Ferdowsi's Shahnameh


                
