This is the most Overrated Show Ever. The Fact that this show sits at top in top TV charts prove lack of intelligence in people now days. This show hacked perception of people that everyone saying its good that when you watch it you can't think for yourself and you agree with other people.


                
This show is in fact 3 disjointed story-lines ... that only come together at middle of season 7. The Story of Fire and the Story of Ice ... were merely used as devices ... to keep the audience buying the main story-line ... which was also the main focus of the show ... As for the main story of the show ... a medieval Game of Thrones ... we have only 3 major houses ... that actually impact the story ... with only Lannisters being allowed to move pieces on the game board ... the role of the other houses being only to react and counteract. While Lannisters are full featured by the writers ... strong military, best diplomats and schemers, filthy rich, best strategical position in the heart of Westeros, no taboos, the other houses are either too weak, too poor, too honorable, too divided. So the Lannisters always get on top ... even when their realm of possibilities is null ... something ... miraculous ... happens ... and they turn the table. At the end of season 7 ... the ruling power of House Lannisters ... from the beginning ... Cersei Lannister ... with the weakest position in the history of negotiations, and weakest poker-face ever, still manage to foul everybody ... this is how weak the writing of this show really is.The show struggle from the beginning to foul the audience that it aims for realism ... so it obsessively promotes 3-4 anti-stereotypes usually found in history dramas and fantasy shows also introduce an insane amount of unnecessary and redundant characters ... so they can be killed afterwards ... following what they believe to be impressive and shocking visual effects. It is this lie ... which hooked a massive shallow and dull audience (TWD shared) to the show in the first place ... along with a massive marketing crusade ... unseen in any television show. Otherwise ... the show feature ... dragons, undead, resurrections, prophecies, visions, shadows and all the fantasy themed stuff ... running along (but not interacting) with an highly unrealistic medieval politics mechanic, aftermath and characters. It looks like it wants to be both ... but fails and it is none.As far as the mechanic of Westeros ... and westerosi archetype ... i found an insane amount of contradictions ... despite being a patriarchal system (you will not see a female soldier, guard,...) ... it is 2 women that actually manage to make the ultimate power-play. In a world that is profoundly corrupt and limited to gold as ultimate value (which can be translated in sex and multiplication as the final goals) ... the westerosi ... manage somehow to summon ... a sacred respect for royal traditions, to acknowledge bloodlines and bent knees, be xenophobic and racist at the same time ... it is like the worst values the human races manage to uncover and promote ... in ten millenniums of written history ... no matter how contradictory ... the westerosi ... will have them ... all at once!To resume ... GoT ... it is unrealistic, uninspiring, very slow paced, poorly written ... with contradictory rules ... which ultimately create a flawed world mechanic! The characters and their goals ... are predictable and simplistic. The story-lines are disjointed for 90% of the show time. The show struggle to be both fantasy and political medieval drama ... and fail at both counts.


                
It always felt like this show was sitting just below excellence. Feeling the need to take a cheeky giggle at a nipple or dick every so often to make the viewer pay attention.D+D The producers of the show clearly think you're not very clever if you watch this program. You need a pair of boobs every so often to keep you going through a story far too difficult to follow for a TV simpleton. That's nonsense, and yet they do it every episode. No one in Game of Thrones is looking to fight for what they believe in, or for honour, or for freedom. They're too busy wandering from North to South and East to West finding their next companion for ludicrous out of the blue sex scenes. If it's not sex, then the character will probably die at any moment too. Killing characters makes a show deep and clever, no one is safe...that's what you're supposed to believe. The boobs are classy, the deaths are clever. Shut up and eat some popcorn and stop thinking about the world or questioning the dubious quality of this show. If you wanted clever you'd read a book, but lalalalalala there isn't a book like this anywhere on the planet and you should definitely not look for one!The way this story has proceeded is pathetic. Shallow. Half baked and weak throughout. Characters have no depth what so ever. TV can be excellent and characters can be complex, just check out Breaking Bad for a quick and easy example. Shows do not need constant death or constant sex to sell. We don't need silly one liners throughout every scene. The story to Game of Thrones was supposed to be epic, and yet it's now just one big story about how a pretty girl with nice boobs and 3 dragons is going to fly across the world and become queen.This is not good enough and the shark has officially jumped.
I watched GoT until the end of the 4th season. It's about nothing but soft porn and uncensored disgusting deaths. The story is much slower than by LotR (which is slow), and there are no great battle scenes which could make it better. There is just talking, sometimes sword fight, torturing, that's all, no one to empathize with, nothing to learn from, nothing exciting. Even watching ants is more fun (I guess). It is like a bubble, shiny, full of colors, but there is nothing inside, there is no value in it. I guess people who don't want to think, just watch, can really enjoy it. Good for them, but not for me. I decided not to waste my time with this series ever again. :-)


                
Game of thrones must be the most overrated show I've ever seen. I've suffered through 5 season of this garbage so far and I simply cannot understand why anyone would ever like this show. You can sum up the whole show in one word: violence. This show basically shows people get physically and emotionally tortured and killed for five seasons. That's it. Nothing else is happening. They're trying to make it look like a political thriller full of intrigue, betrayal and plot twists. But it's not. All the scheming and colluding the characters do leads to nothing, because they all eventually get tortured and brutally killed. There is no action, there are no battles, there is no strategy, there is no mystery, there is no magic. Although they keep promising all of that since s01e01. There's just pointless violence.Watch this only if you've already watched every other show ever made ever.


                
Summing up... Plenty of female body parts rivaling French soft porn but WITHOUT the French's artfulness or equal showing of male organs. Plenty of blood and exposed putrid rotting flesh and corpses without meaning or humor or joy. End result: a feudal-era porn and modern-day snuff offering, by the jaded, for the jaded.Sure. This show has emotional intensity and well-paced plot. Overall top notch, coherent screen writing, directing, art direction, and editing. Superb, world class, diverse, highly talented cast. Regardless, there are still characters to root for, John Snow, Arya among others. With all these top ingredients in place, Game of Thrones could have easily been enthroned a 21st century classic in decades to come. But it's already rotting from inside out.Intelligent viewers know there are so many ways to show the act of killing, copulation, psychological evil and human depravity. They also know when they are being manipulated a d assaulted by the story-teller.Why stoop so low, dear writers and producers? Truth is the Game of Thrones writing team could've been more confident, more selective and artful. They should realize by the 6th episode they don't have to stoop to the level of the lowest common denominator to get attention. Yet they continue to choose the easiest and shortest path: aggressive, sadistic, full-frontal, in-your-face gratuitous vomit-inducing scenes of rotting flesh, endless explicit images of female debasement and equally vicious performance of male castration. Game of Thrones has become primary about how far to push the envelope of tastelessness, "creativity" in sadistic ideas and imagery, flaunting of the ugliest human depravity, while great story-telling has become secondary. Oh and I say this as an non-religious sort and fan of Dexter and Breaking Bad with their ample blood and gore and explicit sex violence and psychological darkness. Key female characters had to strip to be on the show, in compromising and demeaning positions, so why stop there? Why not go all the way? Why are male organs spared? Why are some females in the show spared the fate of unceremonious nudity, others had to go on all fours and banged like mere beasts? The writers acted like they spare no-one in this story universe, enjoyed having the power to rip off clothes from all the actresses they cast because they can, because majority of male audience would supposedly cheer them on. But the celebratory and bloody multiple stabbing of a pregnant defenseless woman through her late term fetus in the womb in explicit detail is our idea of fun and entertainment? Men enjoy it? Really? If the writer directors had fun writing, constructing and witnessing that scene, the devil has gotten to them. The devil grinned at the audience many times during the Red Wedding, through the creators who have long crossed the line of decency.By design these *UNNECESSARY* EXHIBITION of sadistic inhumanity and psychological filth will attract a certain kind of audience - the blood-thirsty, filth-lusting, repressed sadist sorts. They will deify this show, for their beastly lusts are being reflected right on prime time TV. We will never know if GOT is popular because it is a piece of great timeless art because, GOT Writer-directors have sold out long ago. Shame. This show could have been a 21st century cultural legend, outdoing Lord of the Rings and everything in the genre. Could have been.15 Apr 2014 UPDATE Just watched the latest... Dialogs becoming more current-day urban Londoner street slang and unnatural for GOT world. More naked female bodies on cheap display, while male vital body parts remain cowardly hidden. 3X jump in females being debased and slaughtered, and scenes starring young girl corpses. That's GOT writer's idea of boundary-pushing.Everyday misogynists and child snuff consumers shall rejoice. Minus 2 more stars. Hey the cowardly GOT creators - might as well go for male organ full-frontal, pedophilia and full-on incest orgies. Come on, don't be such cowards. What you guys are doing is not real boundary-pushing, but merely going way back to the most regressive and cannibalistic era of feudal Rome.Borrowing from fantasized TV story Rome or the real Romans is not very creative is it? GOT is supposed to be a fantasy, not a humorless documentary featuring *historical studies in female subjugation & male sadism*?Lame...and progressively lamer...
Where Game of Thrones stumbles is it's (dis)ability to properly handle characters and a story at once. The creators of this show are apparently bound on showing needless scenes of naked woman belittling themselves in every episode. Nothing is right with that statement. Just because your show is on HBO doesn't mean nudity needs to appear whenever possible. See Silicon Valley, why can't all HBO shows handle nudity like that? Oh yeah, because Game of Thrones needs an audience. Strip the nudity and you have a worthless show that may be the most atrocious thing to ever exist. Perhaps you will all see come the final season, because eventually the writers have to stop daydreaming of women and actually make a television show.


                
Season 1 to 4 = 10/10.TVW = TV writers.Since the TV show left the books behind (around S5 on), the show's writing has gotten worse and worse. I think the first poor episode is probably the one where Arya is being pursued by the T- 1000. It is utterly absurd. But this season (s7) has been by far the worst. Aside from the odd decent moment, and the awesome spectacle of the dragons, it has been average at best. Melodrama has replaced a proper narrative. Contrivances have replaced logic. Let me give you some examples:1. Daenerys has spent her entire time planning to invade Westeros. And when it was finally time to do so, the dumb TVW threw a spoke in the wheel. Out of nowhere, she suddenly can't hurt any bystanders, so holds off the attack on King's Landing (Yeah, 'cause she hasn't had to hurt any innocent people in order to get to the position she is in now, has she!?) This silly little contrivance is designed to prolong Cersei on the throne (itself a really dumb idea) as long as possible in the most artificial way possible. The TVW are completely shitting on logic in order to force this demented Mexican standoff. The latest episode goes even further... A proposed alliance between Cersei and Daenerys and Jon - to defeat the Army of the Dead. Jon and co have to prove to Cersei that the army is real by capturing one of the living dead. Just think about how DUMB that sounds. As if Tyrion, or Daenerys, would be entertaining anything of the sort, especially at this moment in time. Tyrion would never even advise it, because he isn't stupid enough to trust his sister for ANY REASON.2. The long awaited reunion of characters was handled in a really clumsy way. It was dreadful. Where was the real emotion with Sansa- Arya or Bran-Sansa? It was non existent. It was like these people were just ordinary buddies who chanced upon a meeting. I was really looking forward to seeing the reunions, because we have been waiting since SEASON 1 for it. What a complete let down that was.3. Characters are everywhere, at any time; it's almost as if they've been chatting with Seth Brundle. Daenerys hears that the Lannisters have taken Highgarden - and the next minute, her army is right there with Jaime in the thick of it. The continuity has gone out of the window. Whatever the writers want to happen happens. Magic wand, LAZY writing.4. Melodrama / soap opera nonsense. In the last episode (S7E4), I had to suffer watching jaime being saved by Bron in the most ridiculous way there is. The cliché and brainless 'last second save'. And then, as I fully expected, we open episode 5 to discover they haven't been captured and have miraculously managed to escape unscathed, floating in deep water while WEARING ARMOUR and A SWORD! Holy crap. That's what happens when you run out of actual genius (Martin's work) and have to work on your own crappy, limited brain (TVW). 5. Characters aren't behaving like they should be. I've already mentioned Daenerys in regards to this, but it extends across the board. Bran "OOooo I am suddenly not Bran anymore... but I can feel who he was" or some slop. He still hasn't explained ANYTHING to anyone, even though the world is about to do battle with a mortal threat that he understands better than any other person on the planet. Sansa's turned into some awful caricature, totally alien to who she is as a person. And don't give me the Ramsay bullshit, since that was a dumb TV move in the first place and never happens in the books. Cersei is somehow queen and ultimate ruler, and making logical tactical decisions. But, here's the thing, it's already been established long before now that she is a useless tactician, and a naive, childish brat, who has no leadership qualities. But that's all out now, because they need her to be a main antagonist on the show. Speaking of Cersei, her one remaining child died and her emotion to it was zero. That's after it being well established that her only reason for carrying on with life was her children. Oh, but let's just switch off our brains again. The TVW said it's all OK! Whoopi-doo. 6. Contrivances. For example, Jorah Mormont needs a cure. Suddenly, he's managed to trek to some sort of hostel hundreds and hundreds of miles away, seemingly to just die - where he meets up with Sam - who not only finds a cure in a random book, but manages to pull off the delicate procedure, explained within, at the first time of asking. Then Jorah is back with Daenerys super-quick time. It's just so damn lazy and transparent. 7. Dialogue. This has taken a big hit as well. It's always been the case that the writers think swearing is uber-cool and shoehorned it into as many places as possible - but now they are out of Martin's material, a lot of the meat is gone. Tyrion stands out the most. The TVW are in over their heads. They are out of their depth.Does anyone think Martin will be remotely THIS incompetent? The TVW have always made a mess when changing things (very often for no sane reason) from the books. For example, army numbers and population numbers being exaggerated to absurd levels; ridiculous and unrealistic events, like Sansa marrying Ramsay; over the top swearing, sex, nudity - for no other reason than to appeal to the mindless, lowest common denominator. But this is worse. It's still entertaining, but the quality slide after S1-4 is larger than people are admitting. Some cool scenes with dragons isn't making me blind and dumb to all these issues.edit. At least E7S7 was decent.
First of all, this is only my opinion, you don't have to agree. But I find Game of Thrones to be the most pretentious, sadistic, boring and perverted show on earth. First off, its medieval setting is incredibly cliché. Why do all fantasy things seem to take place in what resembles medieval Europe? This has been WAY overdone in the genre. And then there's the cruelty in the show. I love horror films, I love crime thrillers, but in Game of Thrones the frequent violence is so nonchalant that it's like a sociopath created a television program or something! Of course the rise of nerd culture is likely what is making this bizarre show so popular. All it is though is violence, boring archaic dialogue and of course, sex constantly. Sex without love, basically S/M porn for TV. Some viewers probably get off on it. It's disgusting, like watching a snuff film broadcast into my house. I no longer watch the show and have no plans to continue wasting my time with it. People praise it for its "political concepts" and "well-developed characters" and yet the show follows every fantasy trope and its only edge is death and violent sex for shock value. The whole show seems to exist largely just so its creators can push boundaries by throwing in all kinds of psychotic garbage just to see if they can pull it off and get away with it all. I know the books were violent but never to this extent. Terrible show in my opinion and however the hell it got such a high rating is absolutely beyond me.
For those new to this thing, the only reason Game of thrones the book series got so much undeserved attention is because it went in the opposite direction of the fantasy genre's rules. Instead of a classic good vs evil take it went for the everybody's in the Grey area. The problems started right there, cos for most people fantasy is the genre where you want classic good vs evil battles and you can sometimes show the honourable side of a villain, doesn't mean they get as equally good moral compasses as the heroes. Thats what the drama genre is for. The second thing thats wrong with the books is that they simply have no sense of direction, like when the first harry potter book was being written by J.K Rowling, she knew how the story was going to pan out. She knew it would be a seven book series and had a bird's eye view of the future works. Game of thrones simply is an improv sketch, where George Martin made the story up as it went along. Some of the stories just makes no sense , its like watching the life of an ordinary guy, nothing happening, story not leading to anything , any event. Even though HBO has thrown in some big budget sets, VFX and good actors, this ultimate sense of futility will definitely start getting to you from season two/three. Remember all the fun times we had hating mindless gore/sadistic movies and calling everyone that watched them sick. Well hurray, this show just managed to convert everyone to the other side. Now you can just cut the head of lead and noble characters, and call it unimaginable plot twist. Killing the hero is not a plot twist, ending of Sixth sense was a plot twist. Any idiot can create a sense of shock by suddenly killing of the most important characters in the show. I don't know if any of you have seen The Hot Tub Time Machine, but in it there's a scene where John Cusack's character asks the kid why he's wasting his time in a game(second life) just being in prison taking push ups. I mean this is the place where you get to do the impossible stuff, so why not go kill some orcs or terrorists and be a hero? Game of thrones is ruining the fantasy genre like that. This is an escapist genre, where you don't have to be reminded of the grim, boring nature of our lives, a genre where heroes are born, epic battles are conducted, where there is always light at the end of darkness, hope that makes you want to live. In short, If you like your TV shows to make no sense, no purpose, and you re happy to just watch fictional characters living out their lives, talking matters of no importance to each other, cutting heads, raping, molesting, where the hero always dies, you ll find it sufferable.


                
Heard a lot about this show with everyone saying how great it was so I decided to watch it to see if it was as good as I was told. I found the first episode a little boring and slow but figured it was setting up the characters, etc.Well from there it went downhill. I watched all of Season 1 and half of Season 2 and I couldn't stomach it any longer. In my opinion, none of the characters are all that likable and the few I did like get killed off very quickly, usually with much gore.Then there are the numerous and pretty graphic sex scenes which seem to be thrown into the show for the purpose of titillating (pun intended) the audience who I assume to be in the 18-35 bracket. I'm not a prude, but I never saw any tender love scenes, just gay sex, incest and rape. It's pretty much soft porn with a story.By the last episode I watched I couldn't care less about who regained control of "The mythical land of Westeros". I hope parents aren't letting their children watch this debauchery.Everyone has their own opinion of what is a good show and this, in my own opinion is utter garbage.
I've only seen the first episode and I hate it. I won't ever watch another episode - I don't ever want to see any of these stupid, brutal, repulsive, head-choppers and sister-shaggers on my TV screen again. I don't know what all the hype is about - or why millions of people claim that this is the best TV show ever. I watch better TV shows than this every single day. This is one of the worst TV shows I've ever seen - and I've seen thousands of them. There are far too many characters, none of whom are likable. How is the audience meant to identify with - or root for - any of these neanderthals?


                
I confess I did not read the books, and did not even give Game Of Thrones a try until just today when I watched the pilot. The name simply didn't appeal, but after catching positive buzz about it, I wondered if it could possibly be something like my beloved Spartacus series which sadly ended last season.I could not have been more wrong. The one thing they do have in common is production value. That's sadly where it ends.Where Spartacus had deliciously gripping plots weaving phenomenally-written characters together into intimate dramas, GOT throws out an endless cast of colorless, simplistic characters hoping something will stick. Worse, the plot is as old and moldy as the characters, (Kings wanting their MTV, yadda yadda yadda). And while Spartacus had more than its share of over-the-top violence and depravity, it all served a purpose and the writers still managed to expose the humanity of each character through it all. In GOT the sex, depravity and greed is gratuitous, shallow and as pointless as the rest of the show, leaving me with a sense that I just watched the unimaginative fantasy of a 9yr old boy with anger issues.The first five minutes had me thinking maybe this was going to be a good show... but it quickly derailed into boredom and by the halfway point in the pilot I was wondering if I should waste my time watching the second half. I did, but it only confirmed my opinion.Spartacus always left me feeling exhilarated because of the outstanding writing and characters. In fact the characters and plots were so well written the show could stand on its own with most of the sex and violence edited out, as could happen if it is ever syndicated for network TV. Game Of Thrones, on the other hand, feels like a flat, old, board game. No standout character. No standout plot line. Nothing to pull me in and make me want to see more.
This show started with promise, as I'm a huge Sean Bean and medieval fan...but with an absolutely nauseating amount of gratuitous and unnecessary sex and gore, my opinion turned sour very quickly. I don't consider myself high brow, but the sex and violence in this show for the most part is geared towards a simple-minded audience...which I'm not a grunting ape so I necessitate more than that. Oh and lest I forget, I could overlook a bunch of the raunchy scenes if not for the unbelievably irritating character of Joffrey. That little puke completely ruins this show as I get so annoyed every time he's on screen that I grit my teeth and can't even watch. By the 7th episode, I was done and sent back my unopened second season to Amazon.Furthermore, Ned, his illegitimate son, and sword fighting daughter are the only likable characters. However, they get mucked over at every single turn with no repercussions...which I choose to voyeur into escapism in order to get away from injustice, not watch more of it.I'm amazed at the high praise this trash gets, but I suppose it's a social commentary on what the current populous thinks is entertainment.Sorry I wasted my time.


                
After seeing today in Game of Trones how father let her kid/daughter being burned alive, I realized that author of this serial, as well as HBO may need professional (medical) assistance. Actually, since the beginning, it is hard to find anything that would make anyone feeling good. Seems normal people are in this series only and exclusively heading to miserable ends (being brutally killed, beheaded, burned, skulls being crushed by bare hands to name a few - and any similarity with world around us is pure coincidence) while negative characters are in full swing!So what is the message of your work Mr Martin? Enlighten me, please.As far as I am concerned, G of T is for me finished.Mr Martin your G of T stories may make a lot of money but are in the essence sick, barbarian and ethically worthless works. No one learned anything from you, neither become a better person by watching your work. Wonder if your kids watch your masterpieces and how do you feel about the moment that motivated me to write all this.Tom/Malta
I have given up on this piece of garbage, it is so boring, being nothing but an unending parade of characters, all with mops of hair all over the place, fur, leather, steel, breastplates, swords, spears, blood and ambition. Every show is nothing but turgid scene after turgid scene, strung together in no discernibly meaningful sequence, of these buffoons endlessly engaging in inane verbal sparring matches, torture and murder, or sex. Even the sex scenes stink, nothing but flat chested babes obligatorily baring their embarrassing AAA cup breasts. It doesn't even qualify as porn. The plot, if there is one, moves at a glacial pace, strewn with confusion at all turns. The editing cuts from one verbal sparring match to the next, with nary a thought to continuity of place, character or plot. It is boring, repetitive and leads nowhere. There are simply too many characters, locations, schemes, supernatural events and words to form a coherent presentation. If you took all the episodes of the whole season, cut them at every scene and then scrambled them all together you could then splice them back together at random and you'd have a new season of episodes with no detectable difference. My wife is addicted to this crud so I have to endure it as she endures my Netflix choices of history and documentaries. I read while she rots her brain with this horrible waste of electricity, running the TV and DVD player.
Perhaps the most overrated and pointless show in television history, filled with a cast that wants to do something original but just can't tap the vein, a writing team that can never truly come up with great dialog or enough memorable moments, and so much useless nudity that anyone who truly appreciates story over pointless attempts to gain viewers will be turned off within ten minutes. The show does do right, though, with how it rests solely on HBO - hopefully it stays that way. This way, people who have regular cable will never have to sit through such a boring and overrated show. The only thing that people have right is that the camera-work on this show is actually decent, but Breaking Bad topped this thing in every episode, and sometimes an episode would go by in BrBa without a single great camera angle. GOT is overrated to the max, and that's the truth.


                
Have to say that shortly after the start of season five I have become weary of so much sadistic violence over and over again and not anything good ever happening. The story line keeps dragging on and on with seemingly only new angles on just what different and graphic forms of killing and mutilation can be devised and delivered with optimum special effects. It is a game of thrones and a game where not only nobody wins but just how badly everyone loses, one at a time, told in layered story groupings, episode after episode. Enough already. Apparently this is what keeps the series ratings high and I just no longer want to be a part of this feed so goodbye Game of Thrones.


                
I have watched all the episodes of GOT as of April 18, 2014, so admittedly the new season has only just begun (the disgusting wedding of Joffrey and Margery just aired). The latest episode finally made me realize how utterly despicable this show is. Not because of the violence, not because of the sex. I have seen wonderful shows that have too much violence and sex. What is missing from GOT is any semblance of humanity. I can count on one hand the number of decent characters still living (Danerys and her General, Arya Stark, Tyrion Lannister, John Snow, and the two small Stark boys whose names escape me.) Yes, there are a few more decent folks here and there, but they get very little air time and have no influence on the story. The rest are either corrupt, despicable or just plain EVIL. It is simply bad storytelling to only show evil and corruption, without a counter-balance of decency, love or normal human feeling. No one really loves anyone in GOT, or if they did, you can be sure somebody died horribly because of it. Watching GOT feels like you swam in the sewer for an hour, and you're actually relieved when the hour is up. Unfortunately, you can't get some of the hideous images out of your mind.
This show is probably the most disappointing thing watched in a long time. At first, I didn't mind the concept of the good guys not prevailing. However, as the show goes on. It becomes more of a parody of itself, and in some cases – unrealistic. There is no sense of balance between the protagonists and the antagonists. The antagonists always seem to prevail despite the overwhelming odds against them. Its funny when people state that this is 'realistic' and I should watch a bugs bunny cartoon If I criticize its cynical nature. If you think about it, if the antagonists and the protagonists would have swap places. People will find this show cliché and predictable.Lets stop pretending that this show is morally grey. If this show was morally grey the Lannisters wouldn't act so obviously evil. While the Starks wouldn't act so righteous and just. Making the Starks uphold honor unlike their nefarious counterparts is a trick. The writers want you to get emotionally involved and like these characters. They do this so they can shock you by killing them off. The Lannisters will always win no matter what. The very fact that most of the relevant members of the family is still alive and most of the Starks members are dead should tell you something. Even when they're against a noble house that is just as powerful as they are. They managed to kill off the prince of that house in the most anticlimactic way. The prince isn't even all that honorable to be honest. You see – in Game of Thrones even the anti-heroes don't win. Evil prevails and gets rewarded and you can't be even slightly good like prince.The arrogant fans of this show/books is also aggravating. Always saying this show is a realistic fantasy, and should read Harry Potter if I want a good vs evil showdown. Well guess what.. This IS A GOOD VS EVIL showdown, and rather then being realistic, its just nihilistic. You see, real life isn't as dark as this show. Even during the middle ages most the public lived a somewhat peaceful life. Yes people were a lot more brutal and cruel compared to modern standards, but they still had a trace of morality. The people in this show have no morals, and the ones that do are killed off. Of course there is people like Jon Snow and that Targerean queen. The problem with them is that Jon Snow is always a underling to corrupt officials. And the Targerean queen is too far away to make a difference. There is also the stark kids but they're not a threat to the iron throne. The writers obviously want the good guys to remain powerless and non-threatening so it can give you the illusion of being 'dark' and 'edgy'. Sorry, I didn't fall for your magic trick. I find this show extremely juvenile and predictable.
I cannot understand why this series is so successful. I guess it's only because of the violence, sex and nudity displayed plainly within that draws people to watch it. The story of the whole concept is nothing they care about. First of all, the title is wrong. "A Game of Thrones" is only the name of the first of the seven books of the heptalogy of "A Song of Ice and Fire". Maybe it sounds a bit more attractive, yes, but it's not the title it should bear. The most annoying thing about it all is that the characters are much much OLDER than they actually should be, twice the age and also not captured well. E.g. Joffrey Baratheon has become one of the most hated characters, but if you read the books, you may know there ARE equally vile characters in the story, if not worse. He shouldn't be more than 13, but in the series it is a 23 year-old lad who portrays him. Daenerys should be 15, yet in the series she is a 30 year-old woman. And so can I go on and on. Sean Bean as Eddard Stark? Really? He would be my last choice and Arya was supposed to be skinny... Second, why so much nudity and sex? I do not claim that in the books there isn't mentioned how characters are having sex, but it gets lost among thousands of other more important and interesting and more described adventures, and it's purpose is just to make a background and show us the nature of some of the characters. The books are NOT about brothels, the word "brothel" is just mentioned. All I want to say - if you read the books, why should you spoil your imagination by watching this? Let yourself immerse in the great prose of George R. R. Martin and let the series for those who prefer watching this horribly made adaptation over reading and letting their imagination free. My only question is how could Martin consent to such an adaptation of his fantastic books?


                
My god, all 1000 people who reviewed this series rated it at 9 and 10!I must be from another planet not to see the greatness of this series, because all I see is a random mix of head chopping, tits, messenger crows, dangling dicks, knights on horses, chopped body parts, incest, long talks about epic battles that are not shown, more tits, foggy winter forests, dragons, whores, mental child abuse, the 3rd brother's cousin rightful king, wolfs, gay sex, living dead, speaking in tongues and oh, almost forgot about tits.Seems like every episode was written on a used napkin after a booze and whore party. No story, no true to self characters, no real drama, no epic scenes, no continuity, no logic, no common sense.If this is the future, sing me in for NASA's one way ticket to Mars.PS Sad to witness the demise of western civilization. No values just sex and blood for money. China runs us down economically and is head and shoulders above with the Three Kingdoms TV series.
Game of Thrones is a poorly adapted show that is well suited for plebes. It is not a faithful adaptation of Song of Ice & Fire series. This show had lots of unnecessary changes that infuriated me. The showrunners replace many important scenes with meaningless garbage. GoT ends up missing important scenes and dialogue from the books. GoT lacks any substance, and creativity. The showrunners made too many mistakes. GoT does not deserve praise, but scrutiny. Critics should be embarrassed for praising Game of Thrones. No reviewer is that stupid. This show has too many problems to be praised. I personally think that the showrunners simply bribed the critics into giving the show a positive review. No reviewer would ever give a 9.5 average rating on IMDb for this sh@t. Unless he was bought. GoT List of Problems: 1. Poorly written characters (Dull, & boring generic characters). 2. Lack of foresight when writing these characters. 3. Lack of development. 4. Poorly structured story. 5. Each season is crammed into one book. The seasons should have focused on one book. We would have ended up with better written characters and a fleshed out story. 6. Miscast characters. 7. Missed scenes: many key details missed. 8. Not a cohesive story. GoT masquerades as a good series. The truth is that Game of Thrones is nothing but an overrated pile of sh@t. All GoT has going for it is sex and violence. The success of Game of Thrones is attributed largely to the plebes' lack of taste. This show is made to entertain plebes. If you doubt the review I had written. Please go back and read the books. You would see that Game of Thrones is nothing but a missed opportunity.


                
This show and I assume the book(if the show is anyway accurate) paint a very depressing and twisted look into the human mind. The minute any character shows any decency, honor, loyalty or trust. They are shown to be weak and foolish then killed off. Not only are cruelty, deceit and selfishness needed to gain power and wealth, these characteristics are also needed to find justice for those who have been wronged. This means that any character that wants justice or to perform good deeds has to betray the principles they stand for to achieve these goals. I see no originality in this show only gratuitous violence and endless betrayal and backstabbing. Any 2 people who marry for love rather than power and wealth end up dead, so it is a fantasy world where happiness in unattainable as the wealthy and powerful are miserable fighting to hold what they have and acquire more and anyone not concerned with these things gets trampled on and used. It seems the the author of Game of Thrones may be quite right though since the books and show are so popular humans really do enjoy violence and treachery. Production values are good.


                
Art thrives on limitations, or it can also thrive on big budgets. But I have never seen art push so far to these two extremes that it becomes an overdone and overbearing nightmare that never gets to the point. It's a chess game that never ends. I thought Law and Order was dull.I truly believe that this book series would work better as Films, because cuts would be needed, and believe me, I would cut out a lot of scenes in the HBO series. Hell, I'd cut characters out altogether, Rob and Arya Stark, and the other Stark kid who has noodles for legs, and others. You can retire these characters with no warning right now and I would not have caught on. Until they do something important, I won't care. Sorry, Mother of Dragons.This show takes itself too seriously that there gray characters and gray persona's matches there gray on gray suits and landscapes, even when you see red and gold, its lies. It's hard to care about The Kings Slayer when the biggest things he has done in the series is bang his sister, pushed a kid out a high window and had his stranger hand chopped off. Even though there are a few scenes with him after that which seems to have a potential to launch into something interesting, if not good. Whether they use this to its advantage or not, remains to be seen, most likely not.The only character that stands out in anyway is The Dwarf character. He is not a good character, but he is the only hint of a character we have.There are too many characters in this story, even for TV show standards.THERE ARE 32 MAINE CHARACTERS ALONE!!! (One or two of them being killed off, even so...)No wonder the show has weak focus. There is simply not enough screen time for any of the them, which makes you forget about most of them as soon as they leave. And I love how they just keep adding new characters, because that is exactly what the ultimate solution is, right? Reminds me of No Country for Old Men.This show needs to learn to leave well enough alone, when to not drag and when to move on, learn to be comfortable with edit, and being serious and gray does not make this show epic or deep, let alone smart, it is just underwhelming. The Walking Dead isn't this serious.I'll still watch GOT like a sports fan who still sticks with their bad team, but I'm hoping as the show goes on, it will undo all the issues I have had and finally make a story that is worth a damn. Put you pieces where they need to be and stop stalling.I just saw season three episode nine, and congrats, my friend, you have actually made me care about people in a scene, but in the most basic and cheap way possible. Its never comfortable for ANYONE to watch ANYONE get an abortion in that fashion, but if screwing someone or getting killed is your only wow moment these characters ever get, then stop writing and find a different hobby.
