OK If you are reading this i am guessing you are one of those super fans who can't get enough of Game Of Thrones & like wallowing in your appreciation of this despicable sorry excuse for TV Fantasy drama. As you can tell i am not one of you. Game of Thrones has so many good reviews & such glowing praise as to make me wonder if the whole world has fallen asleep or alternatively hooked up to some matrix-like hive mind channelling this drivel through a tube placed carefully up your backside, can so many people be so wrong? well the answer is Yes obviously. To Critique this show in a sour way is tantamount to treason i am sure but i am British & trust me it is OK to voice your opinion in a negative way despite the whole world wanting to spit venomous bile in your eyes. I have like most of you, watched every episode of it & although you will rant that i have a choice not to watch it or to plainly just go away, i, like a lot of people these days like watching TV shows & be they bad or good it is always good to watch the things that everyone is talking about (and talking about, and talking about) so i carry on in the vain hope that one day i'll switch this show on & something will actually happen but instead i get B grade British actors talking about 'The Wall' or saying things like 'Something awful is coming' or 'Let's shag!' & on & on, talking, more talking & waiting & waiting, always waiting for something to happen, has anyone noticed that nothing has happened in this show for the last 2 seasons? oh but there was a big battle! yes there was except we missed most of it as we were watching the women hiding below talking some more. Oh but there was 'The Wedding' yes there was, 5 minutes of action tabbed on the end of one of those lengthy talky episodes (you know the ones) 'wow so radical, killing off some of the main characters in such a ghastly manner, no one has done that before' Give me strength!! Game of thrones is like a really bad carrot, like the ones you always throw away to get a better one in the grocers, and the viewers are like ageing donkeys continually following it around until you are so accustomed to doing it that you just carry on regardless, yes i am one of them, i've been suckered as well!, i admit it but by always tossing out the promise of dragons i persevered anyway & now i am at a point that i am writing a review about it, not because i like the bloody thing more because i am sick of these endless reviews praising it's 'Boldness', it's 'Genius', it's 'Lord of the Rings-ish-ness.' My god people, what version of Lord of the Rings have you seen? the one i watched was majestic, action packed, sad, uplifting, funny & the real definition of Genius. Not this pile of puss spewing troll bile that passes itself off as fantasy, if anything its more like playboy channel soft core porn than epic fantasy, obviously one of the main reasons its so popular. Of course you will tell your girlfriend/boyfriend your watching it for the breathtaking dramatics or epic storytelling (because of course it has both of those..cough..choke!!) So you will go on watching it telling your friends how amazing it is, how shocked you were by it etc etc but deep down you all know the truth, that this is just a low level generic hybrid of The Red Shoe Diaries, Dr Quinn Medicine Woman & the recent crap Conan movie. In years to come this will be joked about, like in one of those TV Shows that reminisce about the 80's or 90's with a headline like 'How 10 million people COULD be wrong' & you'll sit there & laugh to yourself in a sad 'i wasted my youth' type way, you will finally realise after years of trailing after the carrot that nothing is going to happen in this show, you'll be left with one last talky exposition scene (whilst a battle rages on somewhere else, presumably somewhere they can't take the cameras) everybody will sit round the throne & toast with fine wine & grapes, there will be singing & dancing & orgies (of course) and maybe if we are lucky, one of the dragons might take a dump? Seriously if people don't start waking up soon i worry about the world, i mean Reeves & Fishburne are way too famous now to give a toss so save yourselves. There are much better shows out there to obsess over, much better fantasy books to read, much much better fantasy films to watch & certainly way better porn! but of course if watching evil characters twirl their moustaches & cackling behind peoples backs whilst masturbating over incestuous kin doing the Humpty Dumpty is your kind of thing, there is at least one scene like this every couple of episodes so knock yourself out. oh and of course you will get the promise of dragons just at the moment your thinking about switching off & watching re-runs of Breaking Bad instead... awful TV, watch Lord of the Rings again, that might wake you up my Matrix loving friends. Game of Thrones, enjoy your stay of execution but one day your head is going to be lopped off just like the only good actor in your show... By the way if you are thinking i am a Troll, i'm not, Trolls are fictional beasts that usually turn up in decent fantasy shows along with Goblins & Dragons, all of which do not feature prominently in Game of Thrones!
"A Song of Ice and Fire" is a series of fast-paced fantasy epics by novelist George R.R. Martin. With a total of 4,451 pages so far, it took me a little over a month to read. It's an exciting parade of plot twists and prophecies, and explores a rich secondary world with all its cultures and history through the points of view of a diverse cast of characters."Game of Thrones" is an HBO television series based on those books. It has lasted six seasons so far, and each one feels like an eternity. It is pedantic, talkative, static, and predictable. The progress of its narrative mirrors the structure of its opening theme music: circular, monotonous, and endlessly repetitive. Its plot twists take the form of stabbings, beheadings, and betrayals, but for all their apparent randomness they arrive at regular intervals -- when things are going well for a character, you know his throat will be slit by the end of the episode.The novels were told from the points of view of its main characters, and its perspective broadened with each book, illuminating new corners of the world of Westeros and shedding new light on what's gone before. Reading the books is an experience of ongoing revelation. We gradually come to understand the story's villains, and that understanding engenders our sympathy. The show is more direct. Everything is laid bare, and the characters are transformed into cogs in the convoluted machinery of the plot. The net result is that none of the characters are truly sympathetic; we can only watch the show objectively, without really caring about what happens to anyone. All men must die, and all GoT characters will commit terrible deeds for selfish ends.Stylistically, the show is bewilderingly dull. When the tension should be ratcheting up, Tyrion and his brother Jaime pause for a conversation about their mentally challenged cousin. Littlefinger and Varys, the show's resident Machiavellian schemers, regularly deliver expository speeches. Other characters proclaim their motives out loud, while still others happily announce things that everyone should already know. It creates the singular impression that the scripts are ninety percent filler. The gears of the plot keep inexorably turning, and the writers struggle to keep up.


                
So many have reviewed this so I don't have to go on and on about the entire premise. I do have to say, because I really think it should be said, that there is so much potential here, but it's ruined. The lighting, the directing, the cinematography, the production value, the wardrobe, all so well done. It's beautiful...So why only four stars? It's filled with so many gratuitous sex scenes. Any way you like it: Gay, Lesbian, bi, Straight, Incestuous, sex while murdering... the list goes on and on. I really like sex. I do! I like it in movies and I like it in shows, but this is ridiculous. Almost none of it drives the story. None of it is really necessary at all, but sometimes it's nice to have a nice tasteful love scene. In this case it's a ploy to get ratings. It appears to have worked! My next complaint is about something that they could not have changed as it is part of the story from the books, but this is my review and I can give my opinion (shared by many.) They kill every character that you care about. Then, they introduce some new characters for you to like, and they kill them off. The bad guy wins. That is what they are trying to convey. It may be their prerogative to convey it, but I don't have to watch it. So I don't. I stopped watching. I just couldn't take it any more.The sad part is that there is so much good in this series. I really like the concept of the White Walkers. I like their take on dragons. The whole aesthetic is so well done. The world they have created is quite breathtaking. I just wish I could bring myself to watch it. The story just stinks. Oh well, there are plenty of people that like it so this is just one man's opinion.
I started watching GOT after Season 3 - I was hooked by Daenerys in Astapor scene. I became a fan of the series and was thrilled and waiting for Season 7.Stupid plot, mindless decisions of the main characters, Stupidity with capital S. Is this the same Tyrion we know from the previous seasons, I wondered? Daenerys following idiotic plans and advises ...??? Even when she was in Qarth, she wasn't acting so erratic. Huge plot holes - like how fast can a raven fly from North to South? Obviously faster than a military jet according to the time line in Season 7.Season 7 reminds me of Guy Ricchi's King Arthur movie - you can't believe what you are seeing, checking if you are not in some alternate reality.I hope the people writing the GOT script take some pointers from my review and rethink the future last season.


                
This show hasn't been that great since they killed off Barristan Selmy.It kind of exemplifies how the writers care more about satisfying the 'shock value crowd' with surprise character deaths, than maintaining character consistency or interesting dialogue. Whether it be a close up of a penis with warts, the half dead Mountain raping a nun, or an Ed Sheeran cameo, the show is just kinda 'meh' now.


                
What is good: casting, production values, complexity and a fairly good balance or mix of action, drama, comedy and romance.Compared to the recent Arthur, Merlin and Pillars series, Game of Thrones is extremely well cast. There are no major blunders with actors picked to play lead characters. This is an accomplishment.I also like that it has the Fire&Ice opening credits lending it a timeless TV vibe.And most of all about GAME, I really love watching the young Shakira actress who plays the queen/mother of the dragons. Her every body movement is consistently slow. There is a sexy slow motion grace with her hip-popping Shakira "Suerte" outfit sometimes worn, sometimes not worn... 100% slow-dreamy pleasure. Beyond good.But there are problems (going by TV / leaving books aside). We see no build-up or justification for Ned Stark to ever want to actually be a temporary regent. OK, yes, he might be willing to do it out of kindness, friendship or whatever, but nothing is ever shown to ever tell us that he was so blindingly dumb or blindingly power-hungry or blindingly anything to ever want to risk wasting his time to be a temporary regent, let alone push to do it, let alone risk life or limb to do it... let alone risking his defenseless children to do it."Our old dead King wanted me to be Regent for a while, but if you all are fine, I will return to Winterfell and stay busy minding the north for you. Any problems, write." This would be a win-win. This would be easiest. This would carry the least risk. Ned Stark had no motivation to do what was unpleasant, to do what was hard, to do what was risky, once his King friend was dead and gone.When in prison helpless and powerless, a childless neuter had to remind Ned that he has children in danger. The respected Ned Stark - forgetting he is a father. Forgetting he has children to protect. Not realistic. Another problem is the most evil players in GAME are invincible. Year after year, the great bad guys cannot be removed from "the game". Real fighting kills the great good guys, but never the great bad guys. Magic kills the great good guys, but never the great bad guys. Invincible bad guys ultimately make a story gloomy and pointless.Another problem is neutral parties, when given a choice between joining a brutal dishonest ruthless untrustworthy power-mad king, or joining a king with honor seeking justice rather than power -- the neutral parties will always join the dangerous untrustworthy king. This is reckless and unrealistic.Another problem is the greatest, most complex, most sweeping deception seen in the entire series was carried out by a loony old man with no right hand seen to conduct small things, let alone great secret things. No team running anything. The old man keeps his sons at a distance. He openly treats them with no respect. His sons show no like for him. His daughters are even more worthless.This weak old man could see his wife easily killed with no bother, all the while, he is surrounded by his adult children who hate him? The feeble old man is at the mercy of his close kin, so how could he not expect them to punish him for not caring to protect one of them? Not realistic. He dares eat a meal after what he did?Leaving aside the old man's unhappy nest, what about the army of the good King? Why is the army of the good King loyal enough to win mighty battles, yet not loyal enough to seek any revenge when the feeble old man somehow manages to kill the good King?GAME has too many 80YO men making babies and having hard interactions with young ladies. This is olden times long before the invention of serious ED drugs?And although the Shakira queen is a pleasure to look at, year after year she says some really dumb things. "If X, I will die. If X, I will kill you. After I am dead? I think." I don't care much for the magic and supernaturalism. GAME would be better without it. But even more distracting is the use of modern language. Lots of modern slang language is used in GAME, excused as being the common tongue. But as soon as the modern slang erupts, the illusion to olden times completely disappears. Much effort and costly production values have gone into the illusion of being in ancient times, it seems a shame to ruin it all every 13mins for no good reason. The illusion is more powerful, for example, when the young Stark girl speaks with Jaqur. It is weakest when the dwarf and/or the Hound start speaking slang.The final weakness is with general realism. GAME is far too modern with its social treatment of butch lesbians and dwarfs. It also lacks realism by having far too much happen at night. Visit a primitive location on earth today where electricity is rare, just as modern birth control is rare, and see how life begins at morning light. With no fridge or freezers, see how fresh food comes from the swarms of chickens walking everywhere all of the time. Rich people have many chickens running around. Poor people have not so many. But clearly, chickens and roosters rule the sounds of morning. Along with a sea of chickens, every young women has an infant, a 1+2+3YO and so on. A simple village is brimming with toddlers and infants. If chickens and babies are not seen everywhere, they are heard everywhere.Having many small animals & toddlers make a production difficult, but these simple realistic sounds are not heard. GAME looks like an old place, but it doesn't sound like an old primitive place. GAME has many problems.
Nice set designs, but boy oh boy... Terrible cast except 2-3 actors, slow development of the plots which are ultra diluted and have very late resolutions, not to mention the dose of pornography and incest which could have been suggested not shown in excess. The explicit contentdiminish the fantasy effect of the stories. Winter is coming for 4 seasons, I was hoping Sean Bean will be alive when winter was coming. By the look of it all the main characters will die before winter. We get it the evil characters live longer than the good ones, but they tend to stop in their character development becoming predictable. Like bad acting was not enough there are hundreds of unnecessary monologues and tiny intrigues to ''feast'' your ears. Apparently 6 millions per episode can't change that and for some it's money well spent. Here is a suggestion: Put the money into more Dragon's scenes and more North of the wall scenes.


                
"HBO has done it again" seems to be the consensus on this new HBO show, an adaptation of George R.R. Martin's best-selling book series, A Song of Ice & Fire. But I've noticed a pattern. It seems to be coming from the type of people that ate the last season of Lost out of the writers's hands, or found "The Walking Dead" to be the most riveting 6 hours of television they've ever seen. I've seen 8 of the 10 episodes of this season so far, and I can safely say that it's a disaster. Many people say that the show is faithful to the book but they seem to be only concerned with simple plot points. Character A kills Character B, Twist #1 leaves viewers wanting to find out what happens next, etc. But where are the details? 10 episodes, 10 hours. Each episode covers 10% of the book, i.e. 7 chapters per episode. And yet the writers find a way to only scratch the surface. I'm almost convinced that they speed read through the book to get it written in time for filming.If you want a solid, well written season of television, look elsewhere. If you want a jumbled mess of amateurish editing, directing, and pacing, look no further, you found your best option. The show's main problem lies in the pacing. It is absolutely dreadful. Prepare yourself for abrupt cuts to credits, clunky transitioning, misdirections due to bad writing, the list goes on. Each episode is just one event after another. There is no common theme to tie anything together. The pilot races through the chapters to get to the first twist in the book and use it as a cliffhanger. The difference lies in the impact. The characters involved were only given a few minutes of screen time total. There are episodes where months pass and the writers lazily let the audience know by having people say "It's been a month since..." The two main locations featured are 30 days apart, yet characters come and go as if they were neighboring towns. There are several scenes that last 5-7 minutes long, and almost all of those scenes are lifeless conversations between two characters. The show would benefit greatly if everyone just stopped talking for 30 seconds. There's no time to breathe. Who really cares about history lessons that date back to 500 years? The writers spend time talking about decayed skeletons just because the book did. They don't realize what should be included and excluded. There are quite a few scenes of children being taught or reminded of their history lessons by their elders. But it doesn't stop there. The genius writers have more tricks up their sleeves, including a minimum of one scene per episode involving sex and exposition. Sexposition. Nice to see that the writer's respect their audience. One 5 minute scene involves gratuitous soft-core porn while a character reveals his intentions and babbles on about history and names, but the moans of two women pleasuring each other drown him out. Another problem is that the writers dedicate a lot of screen time characterizing secondary characters. In the book, they weren't main characters for a reason. To develop other characters. Sure, they're important characters, and they do game-changing things that affect everyone, but they're a backdrop. They move the story along, and most seem one-dimensional. It's not until later in the other books that they take center stage and show their intentions, their motivations, their reasoning, etc. In the scene that I described above, the character speaking over the moans is a scheming bastard in the book. But you never know what he's up to or why. Yet in the show, he has more screen time than most of the main cast. Some of the characters only get mentioned a few times in the books yet here they're featured prominently, revealing things that don't get revealed until much later in the series.The show does a terrible job at portraying the world the books build. The lack of scope is jarring. Seeing battles with 20 soldiers instead of 20,000 isn't exactly "epic" as the kids like to say. As an example, there's an army of 100,000 across the sea that the king is concerned about. But in every scene involving them marching, at the head of the group are old men and fat women. It's inexcusable. The extras (in any scene) are so bad that it's distracting. The lack of direction in this show is unbelievable. Most of the action scenes are very poorly executed and feel like they came from a low budget TV sci-fi movie. They feel almost as lifeless and rehearsed as the rest of the show, so it brings nothing new or exciting. The weather is always sunny, there are almost no night scenes, no dynamic camera movement, and way too many re-used sets. The world is even more lifeless than the characters. The cities don't feel like cities but rather like sets. One particular fight scene is clearly a sound stage, with no shadows or natural lighting. The sound editing is horrendous, so don't watch with headphones. The music is mediocre, and it doesn't surprise me, seeing as how the composer was hired 6 weeks before the pilot aired.All in all, the show is just downright bad with little good. For those who haven't read the books, you might as well give the show a chance. It'll be easier to excuse some of the flaws if you don't have source material to compare it to. If you aren't looking for the next "Mad Men" or "The Wire", then maybe you'll enjoy the show. If you have read the books, well prepare to see them get butchered.


                
Dragon flew to the rescue too Quickly, Jon Snow and Daenerys sex/love happened too Quickly, Everything in the show goes too Quickly! What, they have no Money to continue GOT in a usual speed? Or actors are Tired? Or rating fell?


                
You can have as many big stars in your film or series but it doesn't necessarily make it a winner. If you've seen The Cannonball Run 2 you'll understand where I'm coming from here.I'm sure there are some quite good plots among the series and I won't criticise that, but the acting is unnecessary. When you go to see a play at a theatre the actors will, even if there supposed to emphasize whispering, will shout with much drama. This is so the people at the back of the audience can hear what's being said. You don't need to do this on television, they use microphones and the audience has a remote to control the audible volume. In Game of Thrones however, the actors have obviously forgotten they're no longer on a stage in front of a thousand people, so they carry on in the usual Shakespearean fashion and that for me completely vanquished any interest I may have otherwise had.Now the thing I don't understand is this - the show has been on for about 5 years now, but it's only in the last year/18 months people have started talking about it. No wait, going f***ing mental about it. Why?! Why NOW!? To some people this show has become a religion and that's fine, but they're also folk out there who enjoy voyeurism and that's umm....fine too.


                
After watching the first season I have not been able to emotionally connect with a single line or character. It seems that the dwarf is the most sympathetic figure, every one else being either weak or false or dead by the end of the season. The plot is chaotic. Amount of violence is on par with Spartacus: Blood And Sand. Nudity is corruptive and mostly unjustified. Power is the name of the game. Sean Bean is probably the best actor in the series. Yet, this is far off his performance in LOR. The only thing I could connect with were beautiful landscapes of Malta where some scenes were shot. I would rather recommend Rome series, which has a superior plot line and character build.


                
So now the Dragon Queen has saved Jon Snow's poorly manned & equipped mission by airlifting the survivors and their wight prisoner back to safety, we'll have to see how those poor buggers of the Night's Watch defend their silly wooden "Fort Zinderneuf" of a defensive position against the Night King now that he has 're-animated' the dragon he killed. Questions to ask are: Will the dragon be loyal to 'Ol Blue Eyes' or flee back to the lovin' arms of his Mommy? If the dragon decides to hang with the Night King, will it be using a modified weapons system, i.e. Will a 'blue dragon' breath ice instead of fire? Either way, the members of the Watch are gonna get their arses eaten if they stay on that ridiculously equipped wall. Meanwhile, the United Kingdoms are gonna have to get busy slaughtering anything that ain't human that has a fur coat to fit out all those slow-moving troops, who are going to devastate the entire countryside as they eat everything in sight on their locust-like trip to engage the bad guys up north. I don't think Cersi is gonna live by a ration book, do you? Can't wait to see the Night Walkers check out some books from the Citadel without their library cards, eh?
...I don't understand why is it so special. My friend gave me the first 2 books as a present years ago (knowing I like fantasy and good sci-fi), with his personal recommendation. I couldn't get through the first half of the first book. Now my other half got the series, and we have watched the first 2 seasons, so you can say I don't have the full picture yet, but on the other hand I feel I have had more than a glimpse. With so many positive reviews, I'm sure I'm the odd egg...but my issues are the following: 1) The balance always seems to be off for me (example: Winterfell is a capital, but it can be taken by 20 men, when even without garrison they say there were 200 "northeners" inside...it looks like the size of a family farm in one set when showing the inner courtyard, then in the next set showing from the outside it's like the size of the Castle of Dover...decide already, please: either is fine, just be consistent). 2) Politics are way too prominent for my taste (but, if one likes that kind of storytelling, I can understand its popularity). 3) Nudity and sex again is much in front, and while I have absolutely no issues with sex, in a fantasy show I find it excessive (and so cheap) that half of the story seems to revolve around it (yes, of course it is important, but this much? Really? What are we, 13?) 4) So many twisted characters, so little sanity. I wonder how this whole realms survived at all with so little common sense and ground, but it might be again a personal thing...for me, it is difficult to like a show with so few likable characters (and having some more characters with a bit more sanity or moral composure wouldn't make them or the story "one-dimensional", I think) 5) Magic on the other hand (in general) is way too much in the background. Example: they said the birth of the 3 dragons are the most important and relevant happening in the last x hundred years, and yet in the entire 2nd season the same dragons (including scenes when they are talking about them) got maybe 10 minutes of screen time (if that - but we have lots of tits instead, every 10 minutes or so).That being said, it is transparent that a lot of effort went into the show: most of the actors are doing a fabulous job (and the rest are still good, at least in my view), the visuals (including attention to details) are great, the music is excellent and contributes to the overall atmosphere (which is the main reason I'm still watching this and will continue to season 3). I just wish it would be more fantasy and more storytelling, with less cheap sex/sexual references and fewer "imbalanced" (to put it mildly) characters.
This show was hyped so much that I couldn't wait to see it. The production values seemed high and the actors are of great lineage. So what went wrong? Well I blame myself really. I got older and now when I watch a programme I'm more interested in plot and character development than lingering shots of women entering a bath. Now don't get me wrong here, if that shot was required for the development of the show, put it in by all means. But most of these scenes were totally gratuitous. Plus there seemed to be a gender bias at work, there were no shots of male frontal nudity.In conclusion I think that this show was made for males aged 18-35. Fine no problem there. I just don't think that I fit that profile any longer.


                
I can't beleive how much the writing and dialogue has declined over the last few seasons. The banter is comically bad-similar to network tv. Disappointing since the show from every aspect, characters, story line and dialogue, was probably the best show ever. Terrible.


                
Started out very well. 1st season was gripping, witty, entertaining. Season 2 and 3 were also quite good. I was very keen on watching every episode as soon as possible.But from season 3 to season 5 negatives of the show have increased as positives became tiresome or non existent.Many boring episodes consisting of pointlessly long torture scenes mixed with action scenes and repetitiveness.The show has become convoluted and tries to fit in too much. Subplots don't work well. Character development suffers in place of shock scenes. I don't particularly care for any of the characters anymore. Which is all disappointing.Season 5 I did not enjoy much past the first few episodes (they were good though).If I wanted cliffhangers and a budgeted formula, I'd watch the CW or some superhero crap; it isn't far off right now. I feel like HBO and the producers have settled on their success and aren't going to be putting in the quality they had originally. Sucks for the people jumping on board now and putting in their best.The show was right up there with Breaking Bad, maybe not as good. But definitely a winner worthy of 7.5+ stars, but now? I guess I'll watch it? A resounding "meh" for the show in its current state.


                
Starting watching this when this first aired, before everyone could not shut the hell up about it. I grew weary of it and lost interest after a number of seasons. I had forgotten what episode I had gotten up to as it all became increasingly frustrating.Someone who had not watched this previously, could not do so without having some unrealistic expectations by the amount of over-hyping this gets. This would take 65+ hours straight binge watching to get up-to-date. I am so gloriously behind that I never, ever want to catch up.Excellent production values and cinematography, etc. contrary to my opinion expressed above. Alas, this show is not for me. This is just my opinion as unpopular as it maybe.


                
I hope this gets better, and I am mindful that a) this comment is based on the first episode, b) I am in a minority, and c) it can only get better.Firstly the opening sequence was riveting right up until the explanations and disposition. Secondly most of the acting was fine, although the film hardly spent enough time on creating understandable characters and rather too much time spinning from location to location. And thirdly in my main beefs about this opening episode, the closing sequence was telegraphed.The translation of a story into screenplay is an art, especially so in the making of a TV series, where it is important to explore characters in such a way as to make you have feelings for them. This opening episode did none of that for me. I really didn't care. I was bored by dialogues which, like the opening sequence, promised so much but couldn't deliver. I really didn't care for anyone after this forty minutes or so.I do hope it gets better and I will watch episode two just to make sure I didn't see it on a off night (it would have been two off nights because I watched it twice just in case I'd missed something) but actually this is a case where the trailers are better than the real thing. Here's hoping for a better part two.


                
My encounter with this series was very brief. After watching 6 minutes of first episode I had already enough. Actors crawling, walking and even running in obvious plastic snow or whatever material was already a pain to watch. And even as they walked and ran you see no vapor from their breaths whatsoever. If you start a series in this way when you should really get the audience attention and you make such "mistakes" I don't wanna see it. Maybe my bad but in 2011 this kind of mistakes can be easily be overcome. I see it as an insult to the audience what could have been a good series.Furthermore, the part of the dialog I saw was also rather poor and did not appeal to me at all.


                
After two years of waiting, GOT came with a mediocre opening to continue the disaster they made in season seven.
The script and conversations between the characters was bad comparing to previous seasons, the green screen and visual effects specially when they ride the dragons was poor. Moreover, the soundtrack wasn't as good as it used to be.


                
The PR for the series has been that it is good enough to be considered a "Lord Of The Rings" quality/genre project for TV. Not quite. It plays an awful lot like an old 1950's Universal Studios medieval potboiler. The sort of thing you would expect to see Tony Curtis or Alan Ladd in. It certainly isn't up to the normal HBO standard when compared with a production like "Rome". Maybe, as the series progresses, a stronger storyline might start to appear. The production values are handsome enough for TV, but overall the atmosphere is very dull. By and large, the cast seems to be not overly interested in the material. They could be waiting to see some improvement before they bother trying.


                
The literary basis was given to the authors as the big field for making famous for disgusting things. All characters are the crowd of slaves their fears.


                
