TNG is a great show if - and only if - one views it through rose-colored "Nostalgia brand" glasses. Most fans of TNG love it *only* because when they were growing up there was nothing else on TV to watch, there was no Internet, video games weren't nearly so popular as they are today. So they watched TNG because there was nothing better to do. Since they watched TNG while they were young and impressionable, they have rosy nostalgia-based feelings for the show that in their minds' eye, elevates TNG to something *way* better than it *actually is* In this review, we are taking off the rose-colored "Nostagia brand" glasses and giving an honest and fair assessment of TNG.Star Trek: The Original Series (TOS), is universally regarded as one of the best shows of all-time. TNG was the next Star Trek series after it. Other than the brand name "Star Trek", and ship name "Enterprise", they have no resemblance to each other whatsoever.TOS was great because it perfected the following things: fascinating, compelling, unique characters. Brilliant acting across the board. Entertaining, thought-provoking stories. Intriguing aliens. Internal conflict and tension between the crew members. Conflict and tension vs. alien beings they encountered. Plenty of good old-fashioned butt-kicking action sequences. TNG on the other hand, has NONE OF THE ABOVE. Which is precisely why TOS is a great show, and TNG is an incredibly boring show that sucks very badly.For some incomprehensible reason, Patrick Stewart is often inaccurately called a great actor. Yet in reality, he has no acting range whatsoever. Captain Picard as played by Stewart has only two acting modes: "normal mode", in which he states his lines in a dry, monotone way; and "angry mode", in which he states his lines in a dry, monotone way only whilst he is yelling. You will never ever see Stewart display any more acting range in any episode of TNG. He gives likewise *100% identical performances* to his Picard performance in every single movie he's ever been in. Including Dune and all the X-Men movies. That such a boring, no-range, one-note actor is so popular and seen as a "great actor" is nothing short of insane. Contrasted with his predecessor Captain Kirk as played by William Shatner, who displayed a huge array of emotions and was always fascinating to watch because of his range and acting talent, Stewart/Picard is a sleep-inducing stuffed-shirt windbag. TNG's characters, except perhaps Data, are all generic talking-heads who's lines are mostly inter-changeable with each other. Their lines are completely predictable before they are even spoken. Take any random episode of TNG, and you are guaranteed to have lines like this spoken in it:Troi: "I sense they are hiding something". Worf: "We must destroy them for the safety of the ship!" Picard: "We must try to negotiate with them." Riker and/or Crusher and/or Wesley make some generic inter-changeable statements that anyone with the least bit of common sense would already have realized.The hallmark of great writing in a TV show, is writing that is not predictable, Speech patterns are distinct to the character who is speaking. Things being said in interesting and creative ways. TNG has none of this. TOS, and the series to come *after* TNG, Deep Space Nine (DS9), had these things in spades. TOS and DS9 obliterate TNG when it comes to providing compelling characters and compelling dialogue. The dialogue & characters on TNG makes staying awake a very difficult challenge. The dialogue & characters on TOS and DS9 make it impossible to do anything *other than* be gripped on the edge of your seat in fascination. Furthermore, TNG is bogged down in a constant barrage of nausea-inducing "techno-babble" where the characters recite a bunch of fake "scientific" words made up for the show. Most of TNG's episodes are based on this. Techno-babble nonsense gets them into a problem, then at the end of the episode they spout some techno-babble nonsense to get out of the problem. Techno-babble quotient: extremely high. Story-quality quotient: NON-EXISTENT.TNG's characters never got one iota of development. Each character is 100% identical in the first episode in the series and the last episode of the series. This serves the "episodic" nature of the show, which is the polite way of saying: "Nothing meaningful ever happens in the show on either a story level or a character level. Everything that happens in any episode will be reset or undone by the end of the episode. Therefore, the series as a whole will have no story whatsoever, and the characters will never grow or change one iota". This is great for lowest common denominator viewers who do not have the intelligence to follow a story that lasts longer than 45 minutes. However, for you and me, intelligent people, this is simply bull crap. TOS also suffered from the lack of any character development or story to the series, *but* TOS's individual stories were so compelling, and it's characters played so immaculately, that these shortcomings don't stick out nearly so much in TOS. TOS is able to successfully distract the viewer from these things. With TNG, they stick out like the steaming piles of horse manure that they are. Try watching DS9 and you will see what characters who grow and change and an ongoing epic story can do to make a show become a masterpiece. But I warn you, once you see how much better DS9 is for having the COURAGE to develop it's characters and story, you will be hard-pressed to ever be able to watch an episode of TNG again without falling into a deep sleep within the first 10 minutes. DS9 did have a bad Season 1 though (no worse than TNG, however, it is only *as bad* as the TNG series), so if you are going to take this challenge, probably best to start with Season 2 of DS9.


                
My excitement for the Next Gen was "crushed" (ha ha) when the first episode introduced the boy genius--spoiled brat. Nearly ruined the show and thankfully dutifully disposed the character with the shame it deserved in "The First Duty". That episode saved the new series from dying a premature death.Also dutifully disposed and equally celebrated was the drowning of "Yar" in a "Tar" pit--(note the rhyme)! Not as annoying as Crusher, but equally deadwood.The only really good characters were Picard, Dr. Crusher, and Data's brother, Lor. And the only really believable character was Dr. Crusher.All in all, STNG had a few good episodes, but overall a big disappointment.


                
I remember the buildup for this new iteration of the old classic Trek zeitgeist. I waited for it with great anticipation. Then the two hour premier aired. And I really wasn't sure what to think of it, other than I wasn't sure that I liked what I saw.Then the second episode aired, and it appeared to pay some homage to the original Trek show. I was Luke warm to it. There was some character development, some revisiting of past glories in an off handed way, and recycling some old material.Then the third episode aired, and it had a bit more promise, but also had more therapy injected into it. It wasn't intellectual, nor challenging, but it was interesting. It was almost like a mental hygiene film out of the 1950s, but dressed with sci-fi trappings.Then the fourth episode aired, and I got really perturbed by the Ferengi and the clown like performance given to them. And the whole "T'Kon Empire" thing seemed to be executed with a minimal budget (most of which I'm guessing went into makeup and model shots).Then the fifth episode airs, and it has some intriguing plot elements to it, but Patrick Stewart's thesping is stiff as hell. When confronted with an illusion that's ready to burn him to cinders, he holds up one hand, leans back a little, with the other at his side, as if he's half- acting for a rehearsal. Much of the episode is like that. And the whole Wesley as the prodigal son motif had me rolling my eyes, but more for ill execution than plausibility. The episode was half baked.Episode Six had a few fun elements regarding the delegates, so I gave it a pass. And my hope is rejuvenated, after being battered and beaten.Episode Seven, however, is the nail in the coffin. A sex planet with the death penalty for jaywalking. Please. Right then and there I've decided to give this series not a thumbs up, nor a thumbs down, but "the finger".Still, I watched the rest of the season, and smirked here and there. But this thing isn't about correcting odd frameworks to a compatible norm. It's about accepting whatever nonsense qualifies as "different", and that no matter how perverted or twisted whatever it is the Enterprise-D and crew are confronting, it's all relative in the end. There were one or two more episodes that I took a shining to, but again, most of what was being aired was not only lacking in action, but also lacking in intellectual weight.In retrospect it seemed more like a therapy session for a generation that would come of age in the 1990s and 2000s. Oh man, will future generations ever forgive us?Classic Trek, to me, was about seeing shortcomings and addressing them as best as possible, with a positive and victorious outcome. But that's not what this show was about. In fact, TNG was about NOTHING. The worlds explored were not strange, but some hack writer's version of a sci-fi setting. The new life forms were sometimes interesting and entertaining, but not always engaging or necessary to the overall plot. Ditto with the "new civilations". And, to be honest, we've gone to the psychological territories touted in the opening monologue.It's pop/new-age psychology wrapped up in what at that time had been my favorite sci-fi universe. This show, and its spinoffs, all but destroyed that. More's the pity.Oh well. I'll always have Kirk, Spock and the rest of the crew from the old show.


                
This show had potential and decided to squander it. Instead of being a science fiction show meant to entertain, it became a liberal mouthpiece and completely intolerable to watch. The only thing missing was having them hold hands at the end of each episode and sing "Kumbaya." That is not to say that it didn't have moments of brilliance (i.e. "The Best of Both Worlds") but those moments were few & far between. Star Trek should be completely shelved for another 20-30 years and come back (re-imagined) when Hollywood has had an enema.Save yourself the grief and the waste of time. Invest your time in something with real talent.


                
"Easy Money... The Greedy Frontier. These are the voyages of the Cashcow Enterprise. Our mission: to exploit strange new nerds, to seek out new apathetic viewers and promote the colours brown, yellow, and orange... To boldly produce crap like no man has produced it before... My name is Captain Prickard. I am bald and have a head shaped like a triangle."When I had first heard that Roddenberry and others were preparing a spin-off, I was instantly suspicious. After all, there hadn't been a single good non-comedy TV series since the 70s. Unfortunately, my premonition that "The Next Degeneration" would be crap was surpassed - negatively speaking. I could not have possibly imagined that the 80s "Trek" would be so astoundingly awful. Every single aspect of this series is a disaster. They couldn't have made it any worse if they had hired lobotomized mice to produce it and star in it. (Actually, having mice play Picard and Data would have been quite amusing, if nothing.)1. The look. If the 60s sets looked like toys, then the 80s sets look like they just came out of the cleaners: every single inch of the ship, both the exteriors and interiors, are spotless, unscratched, ultra-clean, shining, as if the crew of the new-and-dis-improved "Trek" consisted of 350 cleaning ladies, and only about a dozen of non-cleaning personnel. Can it really be that Roddenberry had never heard of Lucas's "used universe" concept? One of the reasons "Star Wars" always looked far more real than the "Trek" spin-offs - in spite of the fact that SW is fantasy-based - is that the ships, the uniforms and everything else looked used, imperfect, i.e. the way something looks after it has been actually utilized. Secondly, the 60s Trek had a wonderfully colourful look; yes, it was campy but it has a charm that the spin-offs are light-years away from having. ST:TNG looks bland, brownish (kakaed upon? I dood it), depressing, and sterile. The uniforms, like the interiors of the ship, have all the colours that you find in a healthy pile of vomit: orange, red, brown, yellow, purple... It's almost as though green and blue were non-existent in this pathetic human future.2. The cast and the characters. Patrick Stewart is a good actor outside of ST, but his bald head, the evil snake-eyes, and uninteresting stone-face make him an absurd choice for the leading man. Prickard, the moron he plays, is even worse: a pacifist coward and an ultra-do-gooder bleeding-heart liberal, he possesses neither Kirk's charisma nor his joi-de-vivre. He looks bored, hence bores. Data, Spock's lousy replacement, is a dull android, painted with the vomit of a veggie, constantly pointing out the bleeding obvious from his (not-so-)uniquely robotic viewpoint. Why did they paint him? After all, if this politically correct future Earth is capable of making such ultra-advanced androids, then certainly they'd be able to make them with the appropriate skin-tones. The fact that Data is trying to be human is the oldest cliché in the sci-fi book. Worse yet: it offers the talentless, lazy, and unimaginative writers of ST:TNG ample opportunity to play with soap-operatic plots and plot-devices that have as many sci-fi elements in them as "Howard's End" or "Steel Magnolias". Burton, who wears those ridiculous "glasses", makes me snicker every time I see him: I always half-hope/half-think that he'll bump into something and unwillingly launch the Enterprise into an unwanted self-destruction countdown sequence. Don't they have better-looking galoshes in this silly, improbable future? The less said about the mostly very unattractive and wooden female cast-members the better...3. The stories. Many elements are merely ripped off from the 60s original, and far too many scripts could have just as easily been used for daily soaps such as "The Bold & The Beautiful". The reason for this is obvious; everyone knows that women are far less interested in sci-fi than men, hence to attract a wider range of demographic groups, the show's greedy and vision-less producers had decided to make ST full of relationship nonsense and soppy sentimentality. (Will they hook up? Won't they? Truly gripping stuff.) However, even worse than this is the ultra-liberal propaganda which ST:TNG was abused as a vehicle for; be it pacifism, pro-feminism, opposition to the death penalty, abortion issues, inner-beauty-as-opposed-to-physical-beauty conflicts, this series preaches whenever it can, and in the most transparent, most annoying TV-manner imaginable. No wonder Stewart agreed to star: he is one of the most notorious Marxists in the British theater/movie world. I'm sure he has Che Guevara's face on his every pair of underwear...4. Make-up. As cheesy as the aliens and Klingons looked in the 60s "Trek", they could never match the awful look of the aliens in ST:TNG and all the other spin-offs. Whether it's the silly hairdos, the big noses, or merely a changed facial colour, the aliens in ST:TNG NEVER look convincing - not even close. Even the silly Mugatu creature from the 60s shows looks better than these pizza-faced Klingons and very unintentionally funny Borgs. (Bjorn Borgs? Well, he was just as wooden and dull as the ST Borgs.)5. Special effects. The computer-(de)generated space scenes are as fake-looking as Cher's unstretchable face. Never for a second could I suspend my disbelief and actually think I was watching actual spaceships and not some computer nerd's squeaky-clean, absurd vision of the universe.6. The acting. Data is not an iota more robotic than the rest of the cast. The acting is wooden, the characters unemotional. If 60s ST was overacted by Kirk and Chekhov, then ST:TNG is underacted. With its desperately dull-looking interiors and the sub-par stories, this might just be the worst sci-fi series ever made.But if you thought that ST:TNG was a bottomless pit of unoriginality, stupidity, and blandness, check out the even worse 90s ST shows...


                
I don't know how to start. The complete DVD format blows it for me. I've been watching Star Trek since the 70s: that should give a clue.The plots as always are top notch, the actors first rate both in acting and character. Since the beginning of Star Trek the only one I don't like, more like HATE, is the Empath from the Original.Again the format kills the show for me and will keep me from spending any time or money on the Next Generation in DVD format.plop in a disk then push a button then another button then another button and finely after all the childish interaction I get to see the show, then after the show has ended I need to push another button then another button then one more and I get to see the 2nd show, this goes on throughout the complete series, it sucks really sucks, I hate it, I'm going back to the VHS format there I can watch 2 shows with no childish non-since. For this reason I have to give this show a big no pass and off to the garbage can with the DVD format.Who ever gets the rights to the Star Trek no matter which series grow up and give it an adult format, We want to watch the show not pay with buttons.


                
