When the TNG series premiered in 1987, it wasn't greeted well by many of the old-time Trek fans, including myself. It didn't help matters that one of the earliest episodes, "The Naked Now" was a superficial retread of the classic "The Naked Time" from '66. The new episode should have served as a way of spotlighting several of the new crew, but all it did was show them all in heat. I wasn't too impressed. What did work was keeping the central theme of exploration (something lost in the offshoots, DS9 & Voyager). The new Enterprise was twice as large as the original, with about a thousand personnel aboard. Capt. Picard (Stewart) was a more cerebral, diplomatic version of the ultimate explorer we had known as Capt. Kirk. Again, Picard wasn't too impressive in the first two awkward seasons, as some may mistake his caution for weakness. The Kirk-like first officer Riker (Frakes) was controlled by Picard, so the entire crew of Enterprise-D came across as a bit too civilized, too complacent for their own good. It's interesting that this complacency was fractured by the most memorable episode of the first two years, "Q Who?" which introduced The Borg. All of a sudden, exploration was not a routine venture.Other memorable episodes of the first 2 years: the double-length pilot, introducing Q; "Conspiracy"-an early invasion thriller; "Where No One Has Gone Before"-an ultimate attempt to define the exploring theme; "The Big Goodbye"-the first lengthy exploration of the new holodeck concept; "Datalore"-intro of Data's evil twin; "Skin of Evil"-death of Tasha Yar; "11001001"-perhaps the best holodeck story; and "The Measure of a Man"-placing an android on trial. Except for "Q Who" the 2nd year was even more of a letdown from the first. Space started to percolate in the 3rd season. I liked "The Survivors"-introducing an entity resembling Q in a depressed mood, and "Deja Q" with both Q & Guinan squaring off, as well as other alien beings. A remaining drawback was the 'techno-babble' hindering many scripts, an aspect which made them less exciting than the stories of the original series. As Roddenberry himself believed, when characters spoke this way, it did not come across as naturalistic, except maybe when it was Data (Spiner), the android. The engineer La Forge (Burton), for example, was usually saddled with long, dull explanatory dialog for the audience.In the 3rd year, truly innovative concepts such as the far-out parallel-universe adventure "Yesterday's Enterprise" began to take hold, topped by the season-ender "The Best of Both Worlds,part 1" in which The Borg returned in their first try at assimilating Earth. After this and the 2nd part, the TNG show was off and running, at full warp speed. There are too many great episodes from the next 4 seasons to list here, but I tended to appreciate the wild, cosmic concept stories best: "Parallels"(s7); "Cause and Effect"(s5); "Timescape"(s6); "Tapestry"(s6); and the scary "Frame of Mind", "Schisms" and "Genesis." There's also the mind-blowing "Inner Light"(s5), "Conundrum" and "Ship in a Bottle"(s6), "Second Chances." The intense 2-parter "Chain of Command" was almost like a film, and the great return of Scotty in "Relics" was very entertaining, though it showed you can't go home again. The show also continued to tackle uneasy social issues, as in "The Host", "The Outcast", "First Contact" and "The Drumhead" as well as political:"Darmok", "Rightful Heir", "Face of the Enemy" and "The Pegasus." The series ended on a strong note, "All Good Things..." a double-length spectacular with nearly the budget of a feature film. But it wasn't really the end. A few months later, an actual feature film was released "Star Trek Generations"(94). It's rather ironic that the TNG films couldn't match the innovation and creativity of the last 4 seasons of the series. "Star Trek Insurrection"(98) for example, is a lesser effort than any of the episodes mentioned above.


                
The original 'Star Trek' series had its flaws but was a ground-breaking and ahead of its time show with many things that made it hugely impressive. Expectations were high for 'The New Generation', with big shoes to fill but also worries as to how it would fare in correlation with the original show.Good news is that 'The Next Generation' is a very worthy follow up, that will please fans of the original series and also stand very well on its own two feet. There are improvements here as well as a couple of weaknesses. It is agreed that Season 1 is iffy and sees the show struggling to settle, it was Season 3 when the show properly hit its stride. Even for a character meant to be annoying, Wil Wheaton is very annoying.Production values however are a major improvement in 'The Next Generation' over the original series. The sets give more of a sense of awe and the special effects are slicker and more expansive. It is stylishly and beautifully shot too. The music has a lot of energy and atmosphere.Writing is every bit as great as that of the original show. It is entertaining, intelligent, thought-provoking and rich in humanity. The stories, when the show hit its stride, are every bit as high in imagination and just as suspenseful, intriguing and fun. Not quite as ground-breaking as the original series but just as influential and with many of that show's strong points, and actually with a lesser amount of contrived and lacking-in-logic episodes.Character interaction and development, in what is essentially a character-driven show, is one of 'The Next Generation's' best points and where the show particularly excels. Worf and Riker's relationship is particularly interesting, and Picard is just as memorable as Spock. Which is not an easy feat considering Spock's iconic status in the 'Star Trek' universe.Acting is every bit as fine, with the role of Picard containing some of the best acting Patrick Stewart has ever given and he has always been a highly dependable actor. Likewise with Brent Spiner, and Jonathan Frakes proves to be just as good an actor as he is a director. Michael Dorn is also strong. Only Wheaton is lacking here, but there is no acting here that reaches overacting depths like William Shatner in the original series.In summary, well worth exploring and just as good as the original series. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Summary: I do not consider myself a Star Trek fan. The first two seasons have a few good episode, but are over all really boring and hard to follow, check the IMDB ratings of the individual episodes to pick out the good ones (I would say >7 is good, >6.5 is maybe). But from season 3 onwards, there are very few bad episodes (I still skipped most of the lowly rated ones).I did not grow up with Star Trek, I don't own any Star Trek gadgets, nor do I have any friends that are crazy about Star Trek (as far as I know). But I try to give well-rated TV-shows and movies a chance. I ended up watching several Star Trek series, the original series, was a bit slow, but a nice distraction while doing some chores at home. I really liked some of the series that seem to be less popular with the die hard fans like Enterprise and Discovery. But I just couldn't get through TNG, I kept feeling puzzled about why it was rated so highly. Eventually I decided to give it one more chance but skipping all the low rated episodes, and that did the trick, I was hooked. In the first two seasons there are a lot of boring episodes, but afterwards it actually becomes a really good series.


                
Even though "Encounter at Farpoint" was boring, I'm glad I sat through it and then watched "The Naked Now" right after. After seeing that episode, I found it super interesting and funny that I had to continue watching the series! The more of the series I watched, the more I got to know the characters like they're my friends!What makes me enjoy the series are the characters, the technology that the series shows, and the interesting episode content. I just don't really have a favourite character of the series because they're all pretty cool! Picard makes a great idea of the leader, and I admire him in the fact that he's got no wife and no kids (I don't want kids either); Riker makes a great and funny young first officer, who also is too sexually attracted to female extraterrestrials; Data is an android who seeks being more human, and really ends up being hilarious; Troi is a great counsellor with her telepathic abilities; Worf is a pretty funny tactical officer who thinks the best way to deal with their problems is by destroying the enemy's ships; La Forge is a pretty excellent ship engineer; and Beverly Crusher makes a great image of a medical officer, who also sometimes has an attraction to Captain Picard and vice versa. I also love seeing all the technology that the series shows, like how the ships work, how Starfleet works, what the Holodecks are and what they do, and many other cool gadgets! Not to mention, the episodes usually are almost always interesting and awesome! The only ones I find boring are "Encounter at Farpaint" and "Darmok". I'd rate this series a 10/10, but I object to one recurring motif in the show: how much it thinks about the value of having kids. This is just a me thing because I don't want to have kids and I'm sick of how people treat their kids like bowling trophies. For example, in the episode "The Inner Light", even though it got to show how Picard would've lived a life where he's a father and not a captain, I thought it was okay, but not the best, which certainly makes me object to how the viewers rate that the best episode of the entire series just because it showed what it meant to have kids and what Picard was "missing out on". Nevertheless, this is one of my favourite series ever and even though is still not as exciting as "Malcolm in the Middle", I think this is the best sci-fi series ever! This series, is Paul Stompbox revered!


                
Though many Star Trek fans were doubtful that a new generation would brilliantly get the torch from the Original Series in such a classy way, needless to say this is a worthy Poker Bet (game played so often in several episodes !).Seven years of great adventures, lead by the courageous Captain Jean-Luc Picard (excellent Sir Patrick Stewart) and staff like Commander Riker, Deanna Troi, Dr. Beverly Crusher (except season 2), Geordi LaForge, Worf and the unforgettable Data. Not forgetting also Dr Pulaski (Diana Muldaur, season 2) and Wesley Crusher (Wil Wheaton, not so annoying after all, even after a "Shut Up Wesley" tease...).And enemies like the Ferengi, the Romulans (always so serious...), some Klingons (the House of Duras, which disgraced Worf's House of Mogh), and of course the Borg and the Cardassians at the end...But the most typical villain of all: "Q". The mischievous character portrayed by the excellent John de Lancie, gives the Enterprise crew a run for its money, from the pilot episode at least. So good to hear him call Picard "Mon Capitaine" in a cynical way ! Oh, and let's not forget Lwaxana Troi, portrayed by the late Gene Roddenberry's wife, the late Majel Barrett, whose antics not only embarrassed his daughter Deanna, but Captain Picard as well. We'll know later why she acts this way...Some of the old crew were in, most notable episode is the two parter "Unification" where the late Mark Lenard and the unforgettable Leonard Nimoy reprise their respective roles of Sarek and Spock (and what a great episode... Even Data knows how to do a good Vulcan nerve pinch). Two late actors, DeForest Kelley in the pilot as Admiral Dr.McCoy and James Doohan as Scotty in a great episode called "Relics".However, my favourite character was Data, portrayed by Brent Spiner, who did portray its creator, Dr. Soong, as well as his evil twin brother Lore. As Data is an android, we see him experience so many things, including love, but his emotions are absent here, however his discoveries about human nature, makes him one of us, despite the fact that he is a living computer, which at many times, saved the crew (but also threatened it... and was forgiven later...).So many adventures were shared by the crew, and of course the famous holodeck that can be transformed to any setting programmed.A series not to be missed... Like says the Captain: ENGAGE !
The Star Trek franchise is most often associated with The Original Series - ironically, a short-run franchise which only lasted a few seasons. To me, the truly defining series of Star Trek is Star Trek: The Next Generation, and its stellar cast. Although I am personally not a "Trekkie" or an obsessive fan, I have always appreciated Trek as a vision of the future that is not altogether common science fiction - a utopian view of the universe not often held by modern science fiction. Although I am a huge fan of the "darker" sci fi series (like Battlestar Galactica and the like), ST: TNG is the show that really got me into science fiction in the first place, along with Star Wars.The show's new cast is, as I said before, stellar. Captain Jean-Luc Picard is portrayed by Patrick Stewart, a renowned Shakespearean actor with a talent for acting in all sorts of roles, with an Oxbridge education and refined British sense of taste (even though he plays a Frenchman on the show, oddly enough - Q even mockingly refers to him as "mon capitaine"). Commander William Riker, the second in command, is played by Jonathan Frakes, an exceptional director as well as actor, who time and time again shows that he is a master of the set. Various others, including Greco-British actress Marina Sirtis, Brent Spiner as Data the android, and Michael Dorn as Worf, the Klingon, bring their own sets of talent to the bridge, as it were.The purpose of the show is almost identical to The Original Series - the Enterprise is on a (vaguely unspecified length of time) mission to explore the Beta Quadrant for new civilizations and worlds, and to explore new phenomena wherever they encounter them. They make friends, and many enemies, including the militaristic, praetorian Romulans, the Cardassians, and most strikingly, the most powerful enemy of Star Trek to date, the Borg, a ruthless collective of consciousnesses housed in a Hive foundation. The show tackles concepts like secession (with the Maquis), sexuality, xenophobia, and even individualism. Not only does it serve as a purposeful view of the future, it also allows us to view our faults and show how shameful our weaknesses are and that we can move past them.A great show, worthy of extreme praise. 9/10


                
When it comes to Star Trek, I find myself caught between two worlds. I have seen a lot of it, and enjoy it a lot, but I am no fan. My fixation growing up was Star Wars. When it comes to original series VS Next Generation (or TOS and TNG in fan-speak), I'm an undecided voter. My mother grew up on the originals and introduced me to them at a very young age, but my young TV years coincided with the end of this particular show. Neither one is more sacred than the other: I reserve that status or pilot episode The Cage.It is interesting how much the respective shows say about the periods in which they were produced. TOS mostly narrows its focus to a core trio - something that has made it more adaptable to the feature film format - where TNG had a more expansive cast, and varied focus. Despite the initial stupidity of certain uniform designs, and despite late 80s standards, this meant a bit more gender and racial diversity.Looking back, many of the new touches in TNG have meant forward progress: Patrick Stewart has a graceful authority as the ship's captain - and is a much more interesting character and leader than Kirk - while the android Data was a nice addition and the timely introduction of a Klingon crew member made for small moments of comedic perfection (Worf, it should be noted, is the longest lived Star Trek character of all, counting 4 films and 14 seasons). The revamped Enterprise looks less and less like a toy model and a few new species are genuine finds, chiefly the big-eared mercantile Ferengi and the chilling Borg. Of course, not everything is perfect: since the captain is now more mind than matter, his second in command is now the action man on the show, and Jonathan Frakes' Ryker suffers from comparisons to TOS Kirk. Then there is the empath, Counselor Troy, who exists only to speak subtext out loud, tell the characters what we the audience already know, or provide a romantic interest.A larger gripe concerns the Star Trek universe as a whole: it looks to neat and clean, much like the newer Star Wars films. This lack of grit and moral ambiguity would later be corrected in Deep Space Nine, the true polar opposite to TOS, and really worth discovering.This show's long showed that there was still life in the space exploration formula, especially when infused with so many likable characters and such boundless enthusiasm.


                
While it's not quite the greatest show in Trek history, its certainly close. The entire group of people that made this series are incredibly talented and you can still look back on even some of the lesser episodes as classics.I'll always love Picard as the captain who seemed to have so few flaws, and when when he reveals them he seems so genuine. Riker as the number one is also great, LaForge, Data, Beverly, Troi, Worf...the list goes on and on. The original still holds a special place in my heart and I don't think it can ever be topped, but this series gets about as close as it comes to making it perfect.


                
This was quite a trip for Star Trek fans. It has all the good things that made TOS work. The optimism in humanity's future, the sense of wonder and adventure, the charismatic characters... It successfully updated the concept.In such a long run, it had its share of weak episodes, but in general the level was high, and there were some completely outstanding ones.Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard and Brent Spiner as Data deserve special praise for their career-defining performances.TOS was cut a bit short, but TNG had time to develop and reach its full potential. The first season was not the best. The show was finding its feet then, and the characters were not yet as well-defined as they would become. That first season is still worth watching, though. It has good things to offer, and the show would get even better.


                
Remember this also when seeing it as a baby. Didn't really get into it until it was on Spike as a part of some mini marathon back in 2005 or something like that. Now with the thanks of Netflix I can watch all of Star Trek: The Next Generation from start to finish. After seeing the Original Star Trek I can see they got a bigger budget as well as bigger stories and actors.First episode arc was good but the end of season 1 with Tasha seemed like a bit of a cop out. Also like all the cameos from celebrities and from the Original Star Trek. Also heard Wesly Crusher was kind of annoying but they gave him a good send off and not a lame cop out, from what I've heard. Also the end of the series episode was pretty good and explained the entire series meaning of it all.This review might be short since I'm still on season 2 on Netflix but I've seen some of the other episode ahead from Spike and BBC America. This is a classic in television and it was kind of sad when Gene Roddenberry died since he had other side projects. Like Earth: Final Conflict, and Andromeda, which I think were Canadian productions so Gene Roddenberry might be Canadian.Anyway you can see this on Netflix, Hulu, TV, and even get the DVD's but they're pretty expensive. Also this show was given a slight update and given the High Definition treatment. So newcomers will feel right at home with the effects. There's also some spin offs that expand the Next Generation universe Star Trek: Deep Space 9 and Star Trek: Voyager. I'm sure Star Trek: Enterprise doesn't count since it's a prequel and I'll get to those shows eventually one day. Another classic Sci-Fi show that also a space opera at times.
As a kid in the 60's, I loved the original "Star Trek" series with Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, et al and remember being surprised that the show was being remade with a whole new cast in the 80's. It couldn't work, I thought, the original was so iconic and surely the writing couldn't match up.Well I was dead wrong. Much as I loved the original characters, I felt the same about these new inhabitants of the upgraded enterprise. Rather than the figureheads (Kirk, Spick and McCoy) of the original series getting the bulk of the action, here the adventures are shared around new captain Picard, first officer Riker, The Crushers, Worf, LaForge, Troi and Data. The writing was of an excellent standard throughout and the production values vastly superior to those of the 60's.With memorable villains like the Borg and Q, imaginative props such as the Holodeck and just the occasional look back to its predecessor, "Star Trek - T.N.G." was a quality programme and turned out far superior to its three further successors. Ask me to chose between the two and I'd have to give the nod to "T.N.G", for its fine acting and consistently high-quality story-lines.


                
My wife and I just recently started watching Star Trek: The Next Generation for the first time. (I watched it some when I was younger, but I don't remember much of it.) I feel that this makes my review unbiased, since I was not a former Star Trek fan inclined to defend it.This is an older TV show, so the graphics are certainly subpar. The acting is fair, but sometimes the acting is a bit cheesy and unbelievable. The music is decent, in my opinion. At first glance, I was thinking Star Trek: TNG was too boring but I'm glad I gave it a chance as my wife and I are now Star Trek fans indeed.Despite the show's small set-backs, Star Trek is clearly a classic sci-fi that is great in consideration of the time period it was made in. It can take a few episodes to get into it, but be sure to give it chance yourself.What makes Star Trek good is that the plots/storywriting are very creative. This show really "pops out" from other shows due to its uniqueness - it seems so many shows are just clones and spin-offs of the same old concepts. Star Trek is not like this however, and that is why you will find it somewhat refreshing.Watching Star Trek episodes is like eating potato chips - mildly addictive. As my title summarizes, I conclude with stating that this is an addictive classic sci-fi with subpar acting and graphics but creative/unique plots that will keep you engaged if you can look past its small flaws.


                
Star Trek: The Next Generation is a captivating TV series that continues in the Star Trek universe but has its own fresh stories and characters. Set about 75-80 years after the original series, The Next Generation follows the adventures of the crew of the USS Enterprise 1701-D. As compared with the original Star Trek series, the Star Trek universe in The Next Generation era is as follows: The Federation is on basically friendly terms with the Klingons; the Enterprise D crew even includes a Klingon (Worf). The Federation and the Romulans still have a cold relationship. The Romulans are known for being sneaky and playing cloak-and-dagger with the Federation. There are significant technological developments, such as the holodeck and the ability for the Enterprise's saucer section to separate from the rest of the ship for additional tactical scenarios. Commander Data, the android officer, is somewhat similar to Spock in providing an outsider's perspective on humanity. Data also provides some laughs and other interesting moments in the series.This show starts off a bit slowly, as the first two seasons are somewhat mundane at times. However, the show really takes off starting with season 3. The writing and stories overall improved, and I think the acting got better as well - The characters seemed to get more comfortable with each other (perhaps due to the actors feeling more comfotable with each other). I think the relationships between the characters was one of the best things about this series, and overall they all got along well too. In my opinion, the casting in this series couldn't get better - All of the actors portrayed their roles with all of their nuances very well. I think actor relationships/chemistry and character portrayal can almost make or break a TV show, and this was a TV show where the cast really worked out well. In some of the interviews with the cast, the actors have said they really got along well and became like a 2nd family to each other - and that definitely comes across in the acting in this series.The stories in this series touched on many ideas and concepts, from philosophical to character relationships, odd anomalies, and scientific intrigue. There were also humorous moments, particularly stemming from the Ferengi and some of the scenes with Data and the other actors. This series also introduced probably the most interesting and menacing enemy in Star Trek: the Borg. I think the Borg made for some of the most interesting stories in this series - Certainly one of the most iconic stories in this series is the 2-part episode "The Best of Both Worlds".When this series first came out in 1987, many Star Trek fans were skeptical about it, thinking the original Star Trek was a classic that could not be improved upon. However, I think this series showed quite the opposite to be true, as it took Star Trek to a whole new level.


                
I think most guys probably look back with fondness on a television series they would watch with their fathers as young children. For me, it was Zorro (the nineties version), The Rifleman, Bonanza, and most importantly, Star Trek: The Next Generation. Whenever I come home from college, I always make sure to watch an episode or two with him.I don't really consider myself a Trekkie. I've never seen a full episode of any other spin-off series, and have only seen a handful from the original series and bits and pieces of the movies. Still, I love these characters. The best thing this show did was bring a great deal of depth to the crew of the Enterprise. Unlike the original series, which seemed to always focus only on the problem at hand, TNG wasn't afraid to take a moment to explore the characters' interests, even when it had nothing to do with the story: Riker's love of jazz, Data's attempts to write poetry, Picard's interest in detective stories, etc. My favorite character (and I know I'm not in the minority here) is Data, who reminds me a bit of Chancey Gardener from Jerzy Kosinski's Being There. His status as an android provides a great foil for the human characters, and his attempts to understand mankind (and their attempts to understand him) are a lot more illuminating than many philosophical treatises.The special effects are usually pretty good for the time period. The stories, for the most part, are original, or at least an original take on a time-honored subject, even if many of them do depend on technological mumbo-jumbo. The production design is good, with good use of color.I must say, however, that two things, which go hand in hand, have always bothered me about the show: the costumes and hairstyles look like they were transported straight out of the 1980s. This is especially prevalent in the first season. The spandex jumpsuit uniforms of the Enterprise are unflattering and don't look at all professional; they're like feety pajamas designed by Twisted Sister. In one episode, a band of rebels on a planet ruled by women look like they were imported straight out of He-Man. Most irritating of all is Deanna Troi's bad perm, which really distracts from Marina Sirtis's beautiful face. Most of these problems are corrected in the three films with the TNG cast, but it's too bad they couldn't find a more futuristic (or at least present) look through the show's entire run.Other than that tiny flaw, which is good for cheesy mocking value, the show is actually rather good, and I would recommend it even to those who aren't interesting in Star Trek, or even sci-fi.


                
To start with, it won so many awards for the futuristic visual effects, make up and high production values, etc... as well as coming up with all sorts of technological ideas that we now take for granted like tablets and touch screens.However, time is proving that 30 years since first airing, like the original Star Trek as well as other subsequent series, it upholds the values, ethics and morals, focusing on what will advance human civilization such as: freedom, equality, compassion, and coexistence - summed up in: "Live long and prosper. Peace and long life". It also does not shy away from highlighting that many of the issues facing humanity now, even though complex in nature, are caused by the irrational exaggeration of trivial differences (slavery, religious wars, greed, etc..).Its a classic. Happy watching.


                
This series is a definite improvement over the original Star Trek. It has a better cast, better stories, much improved special effects and the production is much less stagy. Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner deliver superlative performances. Some episodes are especially dramatic. The problem is with the premise of the series. It's about a star ship, which is an instrument of war, going about the galaxies. It's security is constantly being breached and it's prone to break down under stress. These are literary contrivances. Ideally, the star ship should be impervious to being invaded, but if that were so, then there would be no story. Many of the crises in the series are caused by the Enterprise itself. It ventures into places that it is unwanted and is constantly a target for other alien life forms, some almost human, who want nothing to do with humans. The mere presence of the star ship provokes conflict. The star ship is not a research vessel, it is a warship, armed with an array of weapons that can destroy planets and which the crew is willing to use. This series raises a question: is it right for the human race to go to places where it is not wanted?


                
Set many years after the first Star Trek series ,The Next Generation stars Patrick Stewart as Captain Jean Luc Picard,Jonathan Frakes as Cmdr William Riker,Marina Sirtis as Counsellor Deanna Troi (an empath),Gates McFadden as Dr Beverly Crusher, Wil Wheaton as Wesley Crusher, Michael Dorn as Lt Worf, Levar Burton as Lt Cmdr Geordie La Forge, Colm Meaney as Chief O'Brien and the great Brent Spiner as Lt. Cmdr Data an android. Also 1st season only Denise Crosby as Lt Tasha Yar and Second season only Diana Muldaur as Dr Katherine Pulaski.This series ran for seven years and introduced a whole new generation to Star Trek. There's some very impressive special effects in this and memorable characters and stories.My favourite characters from TNG are Picard, Troi, Dr Crusher, Data, Chief O'Brien, Q and Dr Pulaskie .Some of my favourite episodes include Elementary Dear Data, Devil's Due, The Skin of Evil, Qpid, The Price, The Child,Best of Both Worlds part 1 and 2,Family,Second Chances, The High Ground, The Defector, The Measure of a Man, Time Squared, The Wounded, The Loss, and The Pegasus.TNG also introduced the all powerful being Q who put humanity on trial and always annoyed Picard and appeared on DS9 and Voyager.
Although Science Fiction isn't exactly my favorite genre of television show of film, Star Trek: The Next Generation has to be one of my favorite shows of all time. Consistently excellent writing and a great cast lead by Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner gave this show an edge over all other Star Trek television programs, even the original. Every story was well crafted and every character was fun to watch. The viewer actually cared about them. What more can you ask for from a one hour TV show?


                
I liked the series but just like the original there were strong hints of a need for "guidance" from "superiors" of a big government type. They said in the series they were not a military organization yet they traveled throughout space in military vessels, wearing military uniforms, having rank and engaging in battles when they deemed it necessary or when ordered to. They disparaged the want for profit and claimed "compensation" ie money to no longer be viable. Plenty of leftist sentiment to go around. Having said that, I did watch this and the original series and the reruns today. It was entertaining science fiction which is something I like. I've not seen all of the episodes but I believe my favorite may be the one in which Picard, through contact with a time capsule, experiences a life on a planet that had been destroyed earlier. He has a family and grows old and the experience, a testament to the lives of the natives of the planet, touches and stays with him and this experience comes up in at least one later episode when he becomes romantically involved with a new comer.


                
