I do apologise: I'd somehow got it into my head that comedies are supposed to be funny. Then I remembered our greatest playwright's comedies and assumed that must be what Mr Kubrick was going for with this 'comedy'.I suppose he started off on the right track, getting Peter Sellers involved, but sadly (for a modern comedy at least) you tend to need a funny script rather than just a funny actor, and the script was certainly not funny. I'm sorry to say that Sellers' Dr. Strangelove came across as over-the-top and self-indulgent. He did as well as could be expected with the President character, given the mediocre script. I quite liked his English airman though: suitably snooty without being offensive.Many of the other actors (notably excluding James Earl Jones) were fairly rubbish, I thought; lots of overacting, presumably under the mistaken impression that this is what makes a good comedic performance.The story was original enough, although it basically fizzled out at the end, not knowing quite where to go and instead just stopping. It could have reached the end much more quickly too, if it hadn't been so flabbily edited; many was the scene I thought yeah, I get the point, let's move on...I'm trying to work out why I gave it as much as 4/10 now. It's "of its time" I suppose, so I shouldn't judge too harshly now.I realised, on reaching the end of the film, that I vaguely remember seeing it before at some point, but I suspect the vagueness of my recollection simply underlines what a forgettable film it is.I accept that far more people seem to like it than don't; I just can't work out why. But then I also can't work out why people think Kubrick is anything more than a below-average director. Sorry, Kubrick fans, but I'd have to recommend giving this one a wide berth.


                
I was so shocked to see this movie is in the top 250. Yes Peter Sellers is awesome, and yes, Stanley Kubrick is a genius, but this movie hardly reflects that. It's so easy to mock the '50s that one can hardly be too amused by the jokes. Also, while the image of the cowboy pilot riding the bomb has become a cultural icon, it's pretty stupid when you think about it and it's so predictable when you watch the movie that it can really be all that funny. This is simply a precursor to Chevy Chase movies, where everything goes wrong all the time and even though the viewer knows that it's still somehow supposed to be funny. Ignore Kubric's and Sellers' names for a minute and you'll realize that this isn't really that great.
I had heard much about this film over the years so I was looking forward to seeing it when I purchased the DVD. It does not live up to its hype. For one, it is not all that funny. Yes, there are some absurd things that happen and yes, there are some characters who are somewhat funny, sometimes, but that's it.Although much of the acting was credible, the characters were neither funny nor satirical. Kubrick simply did not understand how people in high power act and how decisions at that level are made. He didn't understand the dynamics of the cold war. Most of all, he didn't understand satire. Read the book Catch-22, if you don't believe me (I know there is a film, but I haven't seen it so I can't recommend it). The author based most of his satire on Army bureaucracy of which he must have been acquainted. He knew the things about which he wrote and he also understood them so he could show them in a truly satirical light. The essence of satire is that it provides insight into what is currently happening or what is likely to happen. Kubrick based this film, not on what he knew, but on what he felt might be funny based on the bits he had researched and that is why the few bits of satire and comedy in the film come off as being remote.The best parts of the film are those that take place in Kong's bomber. This is, in part, because the bomber and its crew look very real and in part because of the character of Major Kong. Silm Pickens did a brilliant job playing Major Kong. The character was not only plausible, but the few comedic situations involving his bomber arose from his character and his interaction with events and other characters. He was at once a professional pilot and a down-on-the farm (or ranch) human being. His reaction to the contents of the survival pack, for example, fit the character: he methodically listed the contents, as any professional would, then comments that they would make for a nice night out in Vegas (actually, in the original cut, he said 'Dallas', but that was changed after Kennedy's assassination, according to the short documentary DVD extra about how the film was made). It is not at all surprising or shocking or implausible that Major Kong would, inadvertently, end up riding the bomb as it fell to its destination. It's an evocative image he presents: that of a cowboy, riding a bronco - one final, wild ride.What's more, the scenes in the bomber were filled with genuine tension. Was the bomber going to be hit by the Russian missile? Was it going to crash because of the damage the missile had caused? Was something going to stop it before it dropped a bomb? Were the bomb doors going to open? I was very much caught up in the action on the bomber. If the rest of the film had been this way, it would have been a great one.The scenes outside the bomber just don't follow through, though. They aren't very funny and they aren't very satirical. It is, at most, a very mild satire. In particular, the character of Dr Strangelove falls flat. I don't know why the film is named after this character, except that he has a strange name. He is just a stereotypical German. He didn't send out the bombers and he didn't call them back. The only thing he does is to confirm that the Russians could make a doomsday weapon, and any character could have done that. He certainly does not turn his obvious intelligence to trying to figure out how to stop Kong's bomber. The character isn't funny or sinister: he comes off as being pathetic and irritating, particularly when he can't control his hand.The film just doesn't catch my imagination and I don't know why so many people think highly of it. It is probably that people expect that they will like it: it is one of those films that is probably famous for being famous. I wish it had lived up to its hype, but there we have it.
This film has always left me cold. Yes I do get it! No, I am no bored teenager with the attention span of a gnat.I am 59 and a lover of movies of all genres. When I first saw it I think I was too young to appreciate it and I have tried several times over the last few decades to see it with new eyes. However it just does not work for me. Peter Sellers is over used in this (and he is a favourite of mine) and it unbalances the whole thing. Slim Pickens and George C. Scott are great but cannot save this. Quite simply it bores me to tears, I find my mind wandering and am unable to enjoy it. I have seen most of Kubricks movies and find them cold and uninvolving with the exceptions of Spartacus(how much was him?) Paths of Glory and The Killing. Overrated is the term I would employ. I do think the cinematography is great and the sentiment of the whole thing is admirable. But as entertainment it falls down badly (and above all movies should be entertaining even when thought-provoking).


                
Strange. Kubrick is my favourite director but when it comes to this film - which is loved by critics and the public alike - I am not that impressed. It's not that I mind its politics; rather, the movie is simply dull. The humour doesn't work. A yokel-pilot riding a nuclear bomb over Russia and shouting "yeeechawww" is something that might be funny in a Bugs Bunny cartoon but simply comes off as a cheap sight gag out of "Police Academy 12". Kubrick is as ill-suited to do a comedy as Spike Lee is to make a masterpiece (in any genre). "Lolita" had humour, and it was good, but the movie was a comedy drama. Here Kubrick tried his hands on an all-out satire and the result is his easily weakest post-Spartacus film. The gags are somehow hollow and too obvious. If I hadn't known it was made by Kubrick I perhaps wouldn't have even guessed it.
Black and White movies are God awful. The satire is .... OK. Yeah, make fun of history. The plot is yawn worthy --someone was actually snoring in my movie class. Good idea, but not I want the 93 minutes this movie took (of my life) back. The 10 line minimum of text is a joke. I am not about to write an essay about why this movie was disappointing. Black and White movies are God awful. The satire is .... OK. Yeah, make fun of history. The plot is yawn worthy --someone was actually snoring in my movie class. Good idea, but not I want the 93 minutes this movie took (of my life) back. The 10 line minimum of text is a joke. I am not about to write an essay about why this movie was disappointing. Black and White movies are God awful. The satire is .... OK. Yeah, make fun of history. The plot is yawn worthy --someone was actually snoring in my movie class. Good idea, but not I want the 93 minutes this movie took (of my life) back. The 10 line minimum of text is a joke. I am not about to write an essay about why this movie was disappointing.


                
If ever asked to describe “Dr. Strangelove” one could sum it up inone word, STRANGE!!!!  Although this movie expresses a greatdeal of creativity, it’s Cold War theories and strategically placedsexual references may be hard to understand without the properknowledge of the Cold War. 	“Dr. Strangelove” is not a historical movie.  It was not made todepict the real life events of the Cold War.  None of the events wereactual events that happened during that time.  Although many ofthe movies events have strong links to the Cold War.  During theCold War J.F.K received a long, strange message from NikitaKhrushchev, who seemed to be slightly drunk.  Although “Dr.Strangelove” almost exactly imitates this historic event, the filmwas made to poke fun at the nuclear problems America hadduring the 1960’s. 	“Dr. Strangelove” may be one of movie histories best films, but it’slike pulling teeth trying to watch it.  If someone had lived during thatera of time or understood the events the film was based on, “ Dr.Strangelove” may seem appealing to them.  But for the others noteducated about important historical events and are born after the1960’s, they may find themselves asleep throughout the movie. 	This film may have been one of the  most clever and creative filmsof it’s time, but today it may be lost amongst all the action packedmovies, staring young pop culture icons, with gimmicky story lines. This reviewer rates “Dr. Strangelove” a 4 out of 10 for a good movieduring it’s time period.  If shown today I don’t think it would get thesame reaction that it would have had during it’s day.  Unless youwere over 50 and a huge history buff!


                
I like Peter Sellers in almost everything - except this thing.I sometimes miss the point of movies but this film was boring and when on for DAYS! I like subtlety but not so subtle that you have to dig through mounds of dreck to get to it.Maybe because I wasn't around in the cold war this movie isn't supposed to make sense. I just hope people aren't voting for this one because of it's cult status. God knows we have enough movies that are 'excellent' because someone else says they are!


                
My Overall Opinion:This movie was boasted about so much by viewers that I expected some kind of "Movie Masterpiece" when I watched it. All I got was a barely interesting look into the plans to release a bomb. To me this was a far change from anything else I've seen by Kubrick.Plus and Minus material (What I liked, what I didn't):+Good acting by Peter Sellers-BLACK and white-I didn't find it very funny+Good directing by Stanley Kubrick... -...but it's no "2001" (Space Odyssey)-ZZZzzz!


                
This movie is really outdated, and unless you live in the 50's, you'll find it to be stupid as well.  Peter Sellers sux as an actor, and to have him play an American President, was just as about as stupid as him playing a German scientist.  It would've been better if he were to remain a mute and have Miss Foreign Affairs (aka Tracy Reed) to transcribe whatever he wants to say. I rented this flick, cause it's one of my father's all time favs, but he's still stuck in the 50's himself, so I can see where he's coming from.  I love Slim Pickins, Darth Varder, and Patton, but the rest of the crew can ride that bomb and send the film back to the can where it came from.  #11 on the all-time lists ??? You must be smokin something when watching this film. I had to watch it in three shifts, it was so boring.  In fact, I'm late with the rental because I hate to return something that I didnt' finish seeing, no matter how bad a film it is.


                
'Doctor Strangelove' is considered one of Kubrick's best films, and it's been referenced in many other documentaries and films. The best thing about this film is its dark humor. The film centers around politicians in the eve of a nuclear holocaust. The comments by some of the characters about nuclear war is crazy -- it's so insane and stupid that you cannot help but to laugh at some of the comments (ie: 'precious bodily fluids'). Even watching the cowboy riding on top of the nuclear warhead as it plummets to the Earth is hilarious, in a dark and disturbing way.Some people probably won't 'get' this humor or understand it. As a film, it really is not that great. It's a pretty good and different view of nuclear war, which was controversial (hence its popularity), but it isn't a great film. It's just different.


                
There is more ham on display in "Dr Strangelove" than on the ham counter in Sainsbury's on a day when ham is on special offer.Look at the names involved...George C.Scott,Sterling Hayden,Slim Pickens,Keenan Wynn,Peter Sellers,Peter Bull.....................none of them actually renowned for understatement and all under the control - for want of a better word - of a director who was to prove throughout his career that he was often unwilling or unable to restrain his actors on the one hand or motivate them on the other.In a number of his best known works the human beings are merely ciphers,secondary to the machinery,be that machinery a rifle,a coca - cola machine,a computer or a B 52 bomber. In 1964 we lived under a constant largely imaginary threat of nuclear holocaust.It kept us in line in much the same way as the threat of Al Quaeda does today.And the threat of eternal damnation did two hundred years earlier. Instead of the big bad Reds it is "The axis of evil" and "Rogue States" that are our enemy now.The result for us is just the same,we meekly hand over our taxes to whoever at the moment is slopping around in the trough and they keep the shareholders at British Aerospace Arms Division and Boeing in the style to which they have become accustomed. "Dr Strangelove",like many a Kubrick movie,is merely an overstatement of the bloody obvious.It is clothed with the trappings of the satire boom which was reaching its peak at the time,Mort Sahl and Lenny Bruce in the U.S.,"Private Eye" and "Beyond the Fringe" here in the U.K. In the persona of Dr. Strangelove himself,Mr P.Sellers gives one of the worst performances ever seen in a so - called" serious " movie.This is closely followed by George C.Scott and Sterling Hayden in a tie for runner - up. Much like Richard Attenborough's "Oh!, what a lovely war" ,Kubrick's movie tells us what we already know and hammers it into us like a sadistic maths teacher with a blackboard rubber.War is a Bad Thing. Nuclear Bombs are a bad thing.Letting them off without proper supervision can be dangerous.Well,thank you Stanley.
Want movies even funnier than this one big BORING pile of a mess??? Go watch "Rocketman" (1997), "Mousehunt" (1997), or "Johnny English."One of THE most overrated films ever! I don't get it!!! I haven't written much reviews, but after seeing this film a SECOND time, I feel compelled to do so. I saw MANY reviews about how "great" this is, so I got the opportunity to watch it, first by Internet, next by classic VHS; and I will say it again, I DON'T GET IT!!! It never won any Oscars, and I totally understand why.I found it neither funny NOR good! How can a movie about war, death, and the end of the world be "funny"??!!????Pink Panther classic Peter Sellers stars in this film, and I swear has likely the stupidest accent in cinematic history, and acts all socially awkward & confusing.Even Keenan Wynn (great & memorable in "The Absent-Minded Professor" & "Herbie Rides Again"), was brought in and - due to bad directing - was turned into a boring, monotone & weird character!NOTE: One scene I did find kind of funny was "shoot the Coke machine to get coins out" - he does, and a little slapstick where the juice sprays out on his face. hat did get a chuckle out of me - but hey, even the worst movies can entertaining at one or two parts.James Ear Jones??? Eh... he did okay. Still in a bad movie.The war room scenes are long, drawn-out, and tedious, and the scenes in the airplane are repetitive and BORING!!! What is "so good" about this movie??? If it's all about the "direction", it certainly a direction that's entertaining or appeal to a general audience! And I'm definitely *never* recommending or showing this movie to anybody I know!Someone please tell me, am I missing something here???????Stanley Kubrick, very gifted, but used his gifts the totally wrong way for the totally wrong things. And just by LOOKING at him, you could tell his films were disturbing or antisocial. He looks like a serial killer!!!PS: If you want a good "George C. Scott" film, watch "Rescuers Down Under" (1990), a Disney classic.


                
