So many people recommended this to me but I kept reading bits about it and hesitating because it didn't sound very enthralling. Finally I gave in and watched Season 1 - and I was hugely disappointed. I only kept going with each episode because people kept saying it gets better & asking me to give it a chance and I'd love it. Well, sorry but I didn't. I had no connection to any of the characters in it and couldn't have cared less what happened to them. Many of the characters, particularly the women, were awful stereotypes with no depth. The script was boring, the plot was ridiculous and the cinematography & direction often irritating. One or two of the actors tried their best and were good but that isn't enough when the material is so woeful. Mostly tho the show just bored me to tears. I have no clue why this is getting such rave reviews, awards etc. It feels like a case of the "The Emporer's New Clothes" to me where people are convinced it must be good because everyone else says so! And I've noticed anyone who writes a review on their blog/website that does anything short of praise this as the greatest TV series in history is inundated with the shows fans hurling childish badly worded abuse at them and suggesting they are "(offensive word of some sort) morons" etc. That disgustingly stupid behaviour in itself tells me more about the show than any review can.


                
I decided to stop watching it in the middle of third season because I cannot stand it anymore and I can care less about what happens next.A few weeks ago, I was looking for a good TV series through Netfix and saw "Breaking Bad" title. I heard about it previously and it had a great rating as well as on IMDb, so I gave a shot.Wow, are you kidding me! This series is like an American version of those Korean or Taiwanese screaming, tearing, slow-paced TV drama shows. Don't get me wrong. Those kind of shows are extremely popular in Asia and my mother loves them except me. I agree that everyone has standards when it comes to show and film; however, this as the best in America where Hollywood resides... NO. Well, comparing to others, it could be the best and that's why I gave it one star rather than none."Slow-pacing" is perceived differently. I don't consider "Tree of Life" as slow-paced and I think it is one of the most inspirational movies ever made. "Tree of Life" conveys ideas with a flow of images more often than words. Through images and occasional dialogue and narratives, it leaves bread crumbs for audience to find the clues. I thought it was brilliant and the way, it showed me, intrigued me and carried me emotionally to the end.Now, about "Breaking Bad," it is very slow-paced because it showed me everything and that wasn't enough, it also told me everything. I got bored in the middle of first season but I really tried to like the series so I continued. I even started to draw (my past time hobby) while "watching" the episodes because I didn't really have to watch it anymore. Just by hearing it, I could learn everything about the story.The WORST was all the screaming, yelling, arguing and tearing. Well, that wasn't as severe as Korean/Taiwanese drama shows, but it was just too much for me. I guess that is why it is so popular ... I mean look at all the reality shows. Doesn't the audience love reality TV people yelling at each other in TV? 9.5/10 on IMDb ... well, Iron Man 3 has 7.4/10 and tree of life as 6.7/10. This tells me everything and so sad ... so sad.


                
Please note that this review has plot spoilers.I liked seasons 1 and 2 but was never very enthusiastic about it. It was thrilling but I would never compare "Breaking Bad" to series such as "The Wire" or "The Sopranos". Then again I am raising the bar too high. Let me be more realistic: This series is not as as good as series such as "The Good Wife", for example. It is certainly more exciting than "The Good Wife" but it is not so well structured because it runs in circles, instead of moving forward. The original plot, as good as it was, proved to be limited. They don't really have much to go on after two seasons so they started to do variations of the same plot. Variations that contradict and weaken the original story.Indeed I think that"Breaking Bad", after watching its third season, is a minor TV series. The hand-held camera was just bearable in the first two seasons but it gets far worse in season 3. The wobbling is now constant and many times is abrupt, jerky. The close ups are especially irritating because you can't really look at the actors as the camera doesn't stop shaking. Of course, it is done on purpose because no cameraman working in a prime time TV series could be that bad.It is done on purpose because of the short span of attention of whoever is the idiot behind the idea of shooting all episodes as if the series is actually happening in a ship on high seas.Unfortunately, the story itself is also not solid. Season 3 has two new and ridiculous characters: Two assassins, carrying an axe around town, who could very well be in 'Saw XXII, the real last chapter' or any of those horror movies made for tedious teenagers.Then, there is the absolutely not credible Jesse Pinkman who, despite being a loose canon, is still alive and well. Too well, actually. Faced with the possibility of making 1.5 million dollars in three months he decides that it would be better to open a divergent, dangerous and completely unnecessary "business" of selling drugs on his own to make a fraction of the money he could make in a far safer way. It insults the intelligence of the public. The directors of the series already ran out of ideas and are creating very artificial situations just to keep the series going on, no matter its growing lack of logic and credibility. I just couldn't believe when, in one sequence, the big boss meets personally with two street drug dealers. He, who was always so careful to keep his facade of a conservative and responsible businessman, was exposing himself in a way that didn't match with him at all.Even more senseless is to see mister White, who became a criminal in order to provide for his family, risking everything he achieved to save Jesse Pinkman. The core of this series is that Mr. White's family comes first, no matter what. Mr. White would do anything, even become a drug dealer as he did , to provide for his family. Then he risks loosing his own life and the millions he was going to make for his family in order to save Jesse Pinkman! Let's not forget that Mr. White killed people before and let an innocent young woman die in order to protect his "business".The only logical explanation for the many times he saves Jess, especially the two last ones, is that his family doesn't come first. Season 4 comes first...The creators of the series want hard Jesse Pinkman in the story because he is the one with whom young people, the main public of this series, could somehow identify with. Jesse Pinkman can do all kind of stupid things and get away with them because, as long as there is a new season coming, he is immortal.Season 3 has now several flash backs to explain things that happened during seasons 1 and 2. One flash back, for example, explains how Jesse Pinkman got a RMV. The first problem with that flashback is that it shows Jesse and his friends partying the whole night. One of the friends who was in the party, if you check season 1's episodes, was actually in jail by that time...It is most revealing about the weakness of season 3 that a whole episode is about the chasing of a fly. Yes, they wanted to show Mr. White's state of mind but a whole episode? Besides, Mr White, whilst chasing the fly in a laboratory, falls from a height of about 5 meters, hits a big machine and from there lands on a hard floor.There is no way he wouldn't have, at least, broken a few bones but he was perfectly fine a few hours after the accident, the only memory of it being a band-aid on his head... And one of the most advertised qualities of this series is its credibility... I actually read that many people think this series is the best TV series ever. It is disheartening.Season 3 ends with a big cliff hanger. I am pretty sure that it will be another cry wolf, like the so misleading cliff hanger from the last episode of season 2.I can actually guess most of what is going to happen before it happens. Season 3 should have been the end of this series but, having in mind season 4, they over stretched the story. Many illogical things that happened in series 3 happened just to justify a fourth season. I dread to think in being subjected to another season of mediocre wobbling camera-work, reason why I will not watch season 4. Besides, season 4 will have all kind of unconvincing situations just for the sake of a fifth season.
I was really excited about watching this show due numerous recommendations from friends & other people. I had just finished re- watching the whole 6 seasons of the Sopranos for like the 10th time & I was looking for another show to fulfill my hunger for raw television show drama that is founded on intelligent plots & great acting. So I was excited & in an I-cant-wait mood when I pushed that play button as I started watching the first episode of the first season.But man, if I say I was disappointed that would be an underestimate of my reaction. I could NOT believe that someone in their right mind could recommend this show as an excellent show. And to think that I had actually read somewhere where other people were comparing this show to a great show like the Sopranos, and some even claiming that its a greatest television show ever, it was just saddening.I mean, there's nothing in this show that makes it a good show. There is NOT one character that's worth watching. I mean Walter tries hard to keep the show going but his whole story is just nothing but some cooked up story that insults any intelligent mind. His wife not only annoys but there is nothing in the show that makes someone be sympathetic with her. And their son, not being disrespectful to the disabled, is so annoying & it appears his appearance in the show is nothing but a plot by the writers of the show to get some sympathy for this family from the audience. And don't get me started on the Jessie Pinkman character. He is the whole reason why after watching a few episodes of the second season I completely gave up on the show.I don't recommend this show to anyone with sense. I am so surprised with the awards & the positive reviews its getting. And I know its not me, because I know the difference between good & bad writing, acting & production. So yeah like I said, I don't care what anybody says, this show sucks big time.


                
I don't usually write a review, but 9,6 rating for BB is too much for me. I guess I can understand the ''existential anger'' people feel in the modern world, but WW is not the embodiment of it.First, as someone who HAD a cancer patient in my family, I'm deeply upset by representation of cancer patients in this series. Sure it's just a ''plot thing'', nowadays everything is f...... narrative, just get along, it will pay off - it's kid's talk. It upsets me. You don't have to embody existential crisis by literal cancerous growth, it's scriptwriting for idiots. You have existential crisis in True detective and you don't have cancer.Second, is it really ''existential''? I mean, the only thing I see is a high school professor turning into an animal who marks his territory (stay away from my supermarket!). It's libertarianism at it's worst. The big father of the family doesn't take charity, becomes a drug boss, gets angry at anyone who compromises his manhood, says ''I win'' when he ''wins'', wow, and I thought Adorno was joking when he sad TV programme is made for 11 year olds. Eleven year olds on a ''free market''.You think there's something deep in here, well, there is, deep male insecurity and fear that tries to compensate the lack by criminal activity and masculine hyperrealism. It has been done in Godfather with Italian rednecks - Sicilians. Being a man doesn't mean to be a primitive a$$hole.Sorry for my English, I really couldn't be bothered to look up the dictionary if I made some grammatical mistakes. There's plenty of chauvinist, patriarchal and libertarian crap in BB, so it makes us even.
I don't get all the hype we found it very slow with not as much action as was hoping for considering how most people said how amazing it was, I mean chasing a fly around his lab all episode. We sat through every episode hoping it would really blow us away, but as any build up started happening it seemed to go nowhere leaving us frustrated. The first episode was the best one but it just seemed like the writers got board. On the plus side Hank was superb and we liked Gus but we just couldn't warm to Walter and Jess. Sorry to be negative I have rated other series like Dexter, walking dead and tyrant very high so I'm not all complete doom and gloom, I just can't believe all the rave reviews but everyone has an opinion. Oh and I have never written a review before I'm just bewildered why people think this is the best series ever. It makes me cringe when I hear people talking about it.
SOOOOOOO boring. so f*cking boring. and its not just the gritty depressing cinema verite thing. everyone quotes it like its so badass or something "i am the one who knocks!" like seriously? 6 seasons and thats the best quotable line? I did think that scene where the dude dies by the pond or the other dude got half his face blown off was pretty cool but daredevil had WAYYY more badass moments in its first season than breaking bad had in its entire series. (the hallway scene and the car door scene alone top that) I only watched it all the way through because i expected based off of what everyone said that at some point this yawn fest would actually get good. It didn't. One of the few scenes i enjoyed was the one in the finale where Jesse is crying tears of joy tearing away from the compound, because thats exactly how i felt finally being done with this god-awful series.Lets start with the fact that everything is just painfully slow paced. It always starts with an establishing shot of some insignificant detail that is later revealed to the viewer, yeah that gimmick was cute the first time but the fact that you have to do it EVERY. SINGLE. EPISODE. It just shows how lazy and gratuitous you are with faux- profundity and wannabe art-house bullsh*t. Trying to be all Gaspar Noe with it but you really end up like granny at the family reunion with a camcorder. I feel like stewie from family guy, "every hot girl with a camera thinks she's a photographer, ooh, you took a black and white picture of a lawn chair and its shadow and developed it at save-on, you must be so brooding and deep." Thats exactly the impression i get from this show. Its poorly shot, generally hand-held instead of jib, the colors all washed out like they shot it on a hi-8 back in the 90s, and i get that its an artistic choice, but its a completely superficial artistic choice that combined with the droll acting, minimal action, and just general lack of any compelling anything provides a general air of a show that is trying immensely hard to give the appearance of a thoughtful reflection on the somewhat misanthropic nature of good and evil and humanity, but in fact, is just sincerely full of itself. Walter White cooks meth. Walter white makes a deal with a drug dealer. it goes south and he has to kill him. Walter White makes a deal with his boss. it goes south and he has to kill him. Walter White makes a deal with his bosses boss. it goes south and he has to kill him. all of this could have taken place within a single season, without all this unnecessary talk about veggie bacon and star trek and speaker systems, its like they were trying so hard to capture dialog that wasn't clichéd or hadn't been done before, that instead they just literally picked the most boring parts of the human experience and captured it on tape. I spent 6 seasons thinking to myself, i don't give a f*ck about any of these characters. Why should i give a f*ck about any of these characters? Which one am i supposed to be rooting for? Emotionally invested in? Its trying to be like that whole pulp fiction royale with cheese thing where people are just gabbing about something unrelated but the reason that scene was so effective was because it was juxtaposed against what they were there in that car to do. But this whole show, even the spin off, it literally took them 20 minutes to do a scene to illustrate, Saul can't sleep. Kim just woke up. Saul left a voice mail with a off key song on it. 20 f*cking minutes. SO. BORING. None of this is important, or vital to the plot, or interesting, or relevant, or, as it tries so desperately hard to be, an exploration of the human condition. And i get the need to not be some pulp action film that is just filled with gratuitous violence and explosions, but i'd rather that than gratuitous boredom and obnoxiousness. If not a show that is primarily kinetic and physical, then at least provide a PSYCHOLOGICAL, cerebral experience that doesn't feel like scraping a cheese grater across my forehead.
Why God why? This is pure pain in the name of television show, utter garbage. This has got to be a seriously boring show. I gave it a try after lots of hype surrounding it. But all I got was painfully long stares and silences, and boring dialogues. Same boring storyline dragging along every episode. It soon grew on me. After giving it 9 episodes I finally gave up. I just don't understand the hype. And lastly it teaches guns drugs and violence is cool, what the hell? If you want gritty and riveting Dramas I'll recommend shows like Dexter and American Horror Story. I know I'm gonna get lots of thumbs down but sorry Breaking Bad did not impress me.


                
I just finished the series and I signed up IMDb for the sole purpose of giving this 1 star.The actors all do a good job with the parts they are given. Rather than spend time critiquing the on-screen talent I must voice my extreme displeasure with the writing. I guess now it's commonplace for television shows to be as violent and gory as possible (i.e. Sons of Anarchy) but in my opinion this was hands down the absolute worst piece of garbage to ever be televised.I have zero desire to see people doing drugs. I have zero desire to watch human bodies chemically decompose. I don't see how it's possible for a nerdy high-school chemistry teacher to turn into such a horrible piece of filth. I don't want to watch innocent people get shot in the head by the dregs of society. Sorry, it's not my thing.After the first two seasons I was ready to call it quits. Peer pressure and the "critical acclaim" was the reason I decided to finish it. All I have to say to that is - the masses are a bunch of idiots for enjoying this garbage. This is what happened during the writing process: "Hey, let's try to find up as many f'ed up ways for people to die as possible. Let's glorify the jerks that engage in drug trafficking and kill off innocent people, because hey, that stuff happens in real life." This series is proof of the total degradation of society. No, I'm not some grumpy old man. This crap makes me sick to my stomach. Since this was "wildly successful" then I'm sure other writers will try to push the bar even further. I will find a list of the writers and make sure to avoid any project they are ever involved with in the future.Thanks for wasting my time.


                
I don't know why people are praising this show, there's no substance for about 70% of the time, just talking about something that doesn't impact the story. The characters are very dull, and lacking in well character. I feel as though they are just there to look at; they don't connect with the character, I don't feel anything for them - which means that I don't care if they live or die - which means that I'm not in suspense at all.There's about 3 good scenes in the whole of the show but 'Mythbusters' proved them all to be wrong and so unreal that it makes the chemistry feel cheap.This show may appeal to some people but it really doesn't deserve 1/4 of the hype that it has.Don't watch it, you'll be wasting your time.


                
Avoid this show! Tastes are different, I do agree, so that's why this show has a 9,6 grade. It was definitely graded so high by those who wanted to find out and learn how to make crystal meth, kill a person, get rid of a corpse etc. I really can't see what's interesting about this show. The plot is very disgusting and morbid, I wouldn't recommend this to an adult, let alone a young adult or a teenager. Can someone really grade as a 10 melting a corpse with acid in a bath tub? After that, cleaning blood and bones...! I would like to know what kind of population graded this series as a 10?! It is very sad that this show is a hit on the social networks for quite a while.
The two main characters in this series are annoying as hell. Walter White, supposedly a chemistry genius, is an underachiever in life but somehow decided to the dat boss upon releasing he's got cancer.He's so cocky that he thinks he's smarter than anyone.He killed two drug dealers and is responsible for the death of Tuco, Gale and Jane whose death led to a huge plane crash. And he's not guilty of any of those deaths, this makes me sick. Not to mention his secret gay/father-son love towards Jesse Pinkman. He's happy making millions cooking meth under the name of "providing for his family" which couldn't be further from the truth. Maybe he started with such intention but lost himself in the process. Now he's just ecstatic that he's actually achieving something for the first time in his life, regardless of how serious the crime he committed. He's also responsible for Hank's unfortunate injury. Jesse Pinkman on the other hand is a really nice person. He loves kids, cares for his friends, treats people well. He killed an innocent man only to save Walter and is forever haunted for it. But he's a junkie, this "habit" of his led to the death of his beloved girlfriend. He's damned. Now Gustavo Fring, this biggest drug deal north of the border, always drives himself without a bodyguard. And his man, Mike, who does everything for him yet still finds a way to earn some extra bucket working as a part-time PI. There are a few likable characters nevertheless. Mike being one of them. Saul Goodman and Hank Schrader are two of my favorites.
Out of curiosity I borrowed the Breaking Bad DVDs from a friend and watched all episodes before writing this comment. So the first few episodes are okay, some of them are even good. But then it's getting less interesting and I have to say some of the episodes are not just plain stupid, but really really stupid that you would hate yourself and regret having watched it. For instance, there is this one episode (forgot the season and episode number) where these Walter and Jesse guys spend the entire half-hour chasing a fly. And add to that another five to ten minutes of Walter explaining to Jesse why the lab has to be clean. I finally find out why the rating at IMDb is so high. Most of the people who gave 9/10 stars rated the show when it has just began airing in 2008/2009. I am sure if they watched the rest of the episodes and found out how stupid the rest of the show are they would rate it differently.
Best show in TV ever? Master Piece? Yeah, right! Its good, but its NOT THAT GOOD! Read so much about this show, got the whole 5 season to to find the critics were so off! First of all, the script was boring, dull and predictable. Terminally ill chemistry teacher X mid life crisis? A recipe for yawn! As for acting, to be fair, Bryan Cranston is good, better than Liev Schreiber in Ray Donovan, but definitely could not beat James Spader in Black List and Kevin Spacey as FU for the Golden Globe 2013! When I binge on the Black List and Utopia I wished everyday had 48 hours and wish it would never end. With Breaking Bad, after the first season I basically dozed through the second season and then just turning it on while working just for the heck of it.


                
Heard great things about this series and was bitterly disappointed. I sat through the first season as it was only 7 eps however I gave up after 2 eps of season 2 as I was still waiting for something to happen. I was expecting a gritty crime thriller and instead was treated to a slow moving, way too American load of drivel. By all means watch this if you want to spend your time watching his ugly irritating wife and equally irritating in-laws sit around whinging and whining for two thirds of the show. I might as well have been watching a lecture on the healing benefits of sharing or living right the American way. This show was so bad it kept me awake thinking about the time I wasted.Way too slow and boring to keep me interested... Decided to rewatch star trek TNG instead.
Sorry? 9.6 rating? Better than Game of Thrones, Suits and other great T.V shows.There isn't a single main Character that I liked apart from Jesse. Walt is an utter @sshole and if the main guy who you're supposed to be connecting to makes your skin crawl every time you see him, how are you supposed to enjoy this series.He makes out like he's cooking for his family but is he really? He worked out in the car he needed 370k for his family before he died yet at the end of the 5th season before most of it gets taken he has 80million, that isn't for his family he's just greedy. He doesn't think about anyone but himself, will kill anyone to keep himself safe.and as the title says people saying comedy can't think of a time I laughed once other than when I laughed at the annoying acting of walt Jr. and that's no disrespect to the disabled.
Sorry but I just don't get the hype. You want a synopsis? Every episode basically consists of the following: artsy vague beginning sequence attempting to pique our interest but eventually becoming parody, yelling, bitching wife, Walt looking pained but not answering any of bitching wife's questions, Jesse getting beat up and generally fumbling around, frustratingly stupid scenarios, more bitching wife, more yelling, Walt and Jesse somehow 3 Stooging their way out of frustratingly stupid scenario. You want fascinating character study, dialogue that makes you pause rewind and watch it again, and TV that means something? Skip this. Watch The Wire.


                
This has got to be one of the worst TV shows of all time. What do you people see in it? I wanted all the characters killed off except for Saul and the cop. Plot's dull. Story lines stupid. The women characters are weak and the show make them all look like bickering airheads. Maybe it's because USA is full of druggies and that's why they like it so much? Games of Thrones and Hell on Wheels are thousand times better than this terrible, terribleshow. There's wit and substantive dialogue. I had a terrible migraine after finishing the 2nd season of Breaking Bad. Maybe people can related b/c they all do drugs. I don't know. I'm still trying to figure this out.


                
I've watched Breaking Bad through completely twice (to be nice to others). Both times were complete torture. How brain dead must someone be to find any aspect of this vapid, moronic, poor excuse for writing entertaining?Every "plot twist" was chosen from a hat of notes written by monkeys/Donald Trump (same..... ""thing""), and then had the episode written by what I can only assume is someone who was looking to torture audiences with every sentence. It's........... I'm at such a loss of words over how horrible every episode, every line, and every garbage scene of terrible acting is (from otherwise good actors).The only progression of plot is caused by completely implausible stupidity and incredibly convenient coincidences. I found myself wanting to kill myself more than Jesse over the heinous crimes against humanity that is the garbage pile of mega-hyped Breaking Bad. If anyone actually took more than two seconds out of their heroin addled states to think about what anyone is doings or saying, they would be forced to agree.The women exist in this show only as nagging, one-dimensional road-blocks. Designed entirely to take up episode time where the writers were too lazy or ill-talented enough to design an interesting plot. You can, without any exaggeration at all, eliminate 99% of all scenes containing Whatsherface and Theotherone without harming the """""""""""""plot"""""""""" at all (and I use the word "plot" intolerably loosely). It's shameful how completely vapid and pointless women were made in this show, often being killed off with no regard just because the writer's didn't possess any self-respect or talent enough to write a decent script, so it was the only way to make Jesse or Walter's part more..... what? What exactly? Please, they were pathetic cop-outs for lazy writers that couldn't be bothered to do anything worthwhile with their time or ours. Each time I was forced to watch this garbage, it was the worst kind of psychological torture. If I had secret government secrets and terrorists captured me, they could make me talk instantly by only threatening to make me watch every episode again.I cannot dissuade people enough from wasting 5 seasons of television on this..... this..... this lack of /anything/ of substance.
I know this is a poular show and i will probably get hate for this but anyway here it is. Walters beard makes me want to be sick. and i don't like his kid either. why is this even a show? there is 0 character development(apart from Jess) and there is almost no plot either like "oh i am bored i will make drugs" wtf. I don't think this is very realistic because I don't think drug dealers would be this angry in real life. Like he is angry about bacon, but ergular drug dealers probably aren't angry about bacon so wtf? I also don't like the brther. i don't know what disease he has but i feel like him not being able to walk is representing something like drugs.
I have nothing else to watch so I finally decided to watch the final season of Breaking Bad. I couldn't stand listening to the tedious dialogue between the characters in the earlier shows so I hoped that at least the last season would be better. I was wrong!! The finale has got to be the worst season of all. I am still in awe why anyone finds the show entertaining. First the entire plot is stupid and then if he's dying, why does he need to kill Mike in 5th season? He's got boatloads of $ so take some and go away on a long trip, and please just DIE. I've been fast forwarding through most of the shows. I think I'm going to skip the rest of the shows, go to the last one so I can see WW die.
First season was great. So, it deserve 8/10 rating. Since Season one only have 7 episode, it was OK.After that, this show is like Chemotherapy( Poison running through your vain) . This show become radio active after that. I mean, you need super power to keep watching this show till the end of season 5.It became as boring as possible (like temp of 0 K.)To be honest I watched it till season 4 episode 3. I watched it on x2 Speed. Even after doing that it seem to be moving as slow as a snail. And that was it. I can't watch this show anymore or I will have to kill myself for watching this Show.Lets now , talk about Characters of this show.Walter White : He seem to be suffering with Bi-Polar disorder. Skyler White : I am a non- Violent Person. I would have never thought that punching Pregnant women was a good idea. But she changed me. Jesse Pinkman : I love Feminist watching this show across the world. I don't like this character. But, I will appreciate if some of them get offended or at least get bored by what he is saying. Or I am wrong they already are used to it. Hank Schrader : Oh, so sweet our own Potato Sherlock.(and yes, I am making fun of both this weight and Deductive skill.)Marie Schrader : She could steal because she got Psychological condition. Cool, And she got caught. But, I don't care. Walter White, Jr : I don't think we are allowed to make fun of him. But he is stupid as well. Writers fault not his. Saul Goodman : What a comedian.. He never forget to remind his high IQ Audience. Who all think that they got PhD in Chemistry after watching Breaking Bad. That it was just... jUst a Joke. That is all from me. Their is a 95% chance you will disagree with me. But, am I suppose to Care.
The creativity of this series can not get better. To me it is like a Twin Peaks in it's complex nature of human psychology, but with a vastly different theme and mood. I like to watch it at night, when no one is around. I hate drugs, and most of Hollywood's products, but this show stands alone, great, gritty as it gets, unique, and poetic. A great job at plot tie ins', surreal moments, dark side of human nature, imagery. I feel dirty watching the shows at times, but a dirty I like, a dirty we all have in us but suppress, a dirty that howls at the moon and sometimes, cautiously, needs to be expressed. -Cal_Ford @ hotmail .com


                
Seriously?!?!? Best series ever?!?!? Breaking Bad?!?!?! Really?!?!!? noooo, I mean dead noooo. It gets 1 for awful from me because of that. You just can't have Breaking Bad for best series ever. Junkies, drugs, violence and bad acting.. I guess a lot of people like that. What can you expect from TV other than garbage.. From now i am changing IMDb as a source of information for the quality of series or movies, sorry to say. Or maybe I should be glad that they don't have for number one Pretty Little Liars or Black List.. i guess. Who pays people to give high ratings to garbage? disappointing.. ps: I don't understand why I get this message: "Your review does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for reviews is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions." and how other people's comments are 2-3 lines short. oh well.. more disappointing..


                
"Tread Carefully" as the last episode was called (Season 5 Episode 09) Was probably the worst episode that could be created, I'm not sure what the director was thinking? Maybe he wanted to give us a nightmare of an episode and then blow our minds on the next. Anyhow, He downgraded my love for the show from 10 to a stable 7 with just 1 episode. There is not much I could tell you about this episode other than it was awful, Right down the drain, 50 minutes of regret, I'm lying now in my bed, feeling lonely and frustrated of how just one episode could downgrade your favorite show from number 1 to a probable number 10-15. Sincerely yours, Rémy


                
