This show is missing a soul: a beating heart below the surface. At first glance BB seemed pretty cool to me, but after a while everything started feeling out of place; the funny moments are just uncomfortable. The storyline, which could've been exciting, completely loses all tension within the first episode; quite an achievement! The family scenes with great comic potential never work out because everyone is behaving like psychopaths. I mean, none of the characters in Seinfeld are particularly pleasant and yet they make for good viewing, because they actually respond to their environment in a manner that we can relate to. The violence felt all wrong too. I like my gore (Braindead) as much as the next guy, but it needs to intensify the experience of the story; in BB it's just giving people something to gross out on to prevent them from realizing that nothing important is really happening (Game of Thrones anyone?).The fact that so many people lose their mind over this show worries me a bit. Then again, I suppose every generation gets the TV show it deserves. We live in confusing times. The good news is that people want to be entertained by something as different as Breaking Bad. The bad news is that what they're excited by is so hollow.


                
This show is by and far, THE most overrated show I have ever seen. The amount of promoting that is done by fans of the show is unbelievably. At first I chose not to watch, simply because I tend not to sway with popular opinions. Then I decided to give the show a chance given its acclaim...I was severely disappointed after watching the first season and a little concerned as to why I didn't like (albeit feeling guilty). I then proceeded to watch season 2; I was again disappointed in waiting for the big AH-HAH! moment of greatness. By season 3 I was in physical pain and enraged at everything about this show. I hated the characters, the story line and total lack of orgasmic satisfaction that had been promised by fans. Like a stubborn mule, I watched the entire series beginning to end; pilot to finale. While I'll choose not to discuss matters pertaining to writing or plot quality, I would like to touch on a few notions categorically:1) To fans: No, no...this show is NOT as good as or even REMOTELY close to The Sopranos -- please stop dramatically making such drug-induced proclamations. 2) Every character is so damn hatable, it is actually amazing. I hated all-of-them. (yes including the Walter Jr.) I have never felt physical anger towards characters on any show before BB.3) Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul have amazing chemistry together and I sincerely hope they work together sometime in the future. Despite my hate for their characters, the acting by these two was quite gripping. Beyond a doubt, Cranston especially has proved his abilities to act beyond comedy. He deserves recognition.After having completely finished the series, I can't help but feel disappointed. I went in expecting a phenomenal show and ended up forcing my self through its entirety. However, I realized that much of this disappointment stems from the brutal constant over-hyping of the series. But I can't say I will ever re-watch the show seeing as how that would be point-less.So my sincere advice to any potential subscriber to the Breaking Bad series is, stop; don't watch it. Come back in a few months when the hype has completely died and rid yourself of all expectations if only to give your self a fair chance of un-tainted judgement. I do stand by my original judgement, this series does not belong amongst the likes of The Soprano's. To suggest that this show is better would be asinine.


                
I'm not one to usually give a bad rating on something unless I've observed it with all my might. but this show really is overrated, I'm sorry if that upsets people as so many of them think this show is amazing and have taken it upon themselves to call it one of the best in history, but yet after pushing through to the third season of Breaking Bad, I still couldn't see the appeal. Many of my friends have said it's amazing and it would get me hooked within the first episode...to say that didn't happen was an understatement. I really wanted to like it, I really did, but Walter White played by Bryan Cranston portrayed this painful character to watch; He was twitchy and anxious all the time (which I understand because the show is trying to make it as realistic as possible and being nervous comes with the part of playing a drug lord)which pauses me to wonder why Walt couldn't just be cool about it all, he's a rookie, I get that and he has a lot to lose, and I'm not denying him the courtesy of admitting that how he acted was true enough, but why couldn't he just drop out and work in a chem lab somewhere that earns him big bucks? I'm sure a man with his caliber and education could get a high end job, his friend owns a company that was part his, couldn't he have just asked for a job that pays him a lot within the company? I don't know if I'm just being naive here but, think about it. Anyway it was all still frustrating to watch, I felt the writers should have brought out more of his brilliant smart side than focus mainly on the family-man side of him. The show had good themes and the plot really never got old speaking honestly, but it's as Walter said, they take a step forward and two steps back, THE WHOLE TIME. I don't think people knew how annoying that was, all I wanted to see was this badass character that was mathematically ingenious and a chem whiz, but unfortunately that was only shown little of. I hated that Walt's genius didn't come out more often and so I got tired of the teasing quite quickly; he would pull this stunt where he figures acid to dissolve bodies, get beans that would poison people, build car batteries from nuts and bolts, make Meth from scratch and you would get this thrill that makes you want to keep watching forever and then bam! his wife calls and the illusion shatters. Speaking of Skylar, that woman drove me mad! although again I understand she was playing the role of a realistic wife, and still I found that frustrating. Her character portrayal was...abysmal. that's all I'll say.The show in general was repetitive, bad guy, defeat bad guy, make meth, get rich. and then he falls to his demise. so after 5 seasons, Walter gets nothing in the end. Hey producers, just a little shout-out, you want to make this show realistic, right? Realism promotes predictability! If people were surprised by that ending, you'll find me with my face in my palm. anyway, to round this up, it was a bad show, that I would have liked to watch had it been more interesting than Walter having an aneurysm every time the DEA mentioned drugs. just sayin'.
As someone who is used to shows being touted as "life-changing" and "brilliant" I ignored all of the hype about this show until recently, when I saw that there was a museum devoted to art based on this show, not to mention a "First World Problems" meme where someone said that Breaking Bad made other television unwatchable. I just had to watch it.Surprise! It's mediocre.This is more "gangster" entertainment aimed at people who need gangster entertainment as escapist fantasy, but otherwise this isn't any different from other FANTASTIC TV THAT YOU CAN'T MISS that everyone forgets about as soon as it gets canceled.


                
At first, I thought that 'Breaking Bad' went wrong because the drama was played out over too many seasons. The premise of a high-school science teacher who becomes a meth cook had its dramatic elements, but was primarily comic due to the sheer unlikelihood of the situation. As the audience to a drama, we want to identify with the characters, and we can't sympathize with a protagonist who acts without reason. We did have sympathy for Walter White as a cancer patient in a last-ditch effort to leave money for his family. We wanted him to succeed as a meth chef, and we are only willing to consider his moral dilemmas to the extent that we excused his crimes. Breaking Bad should have placed its protagonist in juxtaposing situations involving drug users, like the season-one relationship between Walter and Jesse. The show should have been about Walt considering the effect of his actions and his interactions with people who use drugs. Instead, the writer thought to make a cinematic crime drama, not the episodic, serio-comic look at a teacher, a man in mid-life, and an apparently upright citizen coming to terms with his hypocrisy and accepting others. In season one, Walt has contempt for Jesse, and we hope that this tense relationship continually resolves itself in camaraderie. Instead, the partners in crime hate each other more, and the conflict makes for a ridiculous spectacle as the series lays waste the best aspect of its first season. VInce Gilligan began with 'The Sopranos' before helming this project, and it is easy to see how a plot about the criminal mind of a high school science teacher was derived from the plot about the average suburban life of a mobster. In the latter, we sympathize with a criminal because we see a vulnerable life behind the goombah violence. In Breaking Bad, we lose sympathy with a vulnerable character becoming an egomaniacal criminal and ruining lives. In the Soprano house, there were few household secrets, and no insufferable moments of vile anti-drama when an audience hates the protagonist. The writers here should have allowed Walt to keep his secret throughout the series, which might have ended when his wife found out. Indeed, the initial story wasn't played out long enough. I find it almost unfathomable that five seasons of a show about making drugs might elapse without the main character even considering to try some. At most, the show could have revealed that Walter was associating with odd individuals and possibly using drugs. The series could have portrayed Walt's teenage son in admiration of Walt's young friends, or a wife who disapproved but was led toward consideration. A plausible familial drama would have been one in which a wife disapproves of her husband in a midlife crisis, condescending to youth. If that led to a divorce, the writers could have created ancillary drama about marriage and children. Anna Gunn would have played an estranged wife, not be wasted in the role of a domestic hostage. She fears for her children's safety, totally despises her husband, but never reports him to the police despite having every reason and opportunity to do so. One wishes that Bryan Cranston had found his character as insufferable as it became. This show was ruined by its early notoriety, and a writer encouraged to take himself too seriously. This is still TV, and the novel idea that Breaking Bad was TV art licensed the stupidity and boring suspense that ensued.


                
I made it to Episode 6 of season 2.I am finished now...As the title says, this is a horrible show full of horrible people, I simply could not connect with any of them, it bums me out after every episode and has no redeeming qualities whatsoever, episode 6 of season 2 (Peekaboo) finished me off, I am not prepared to watch things like that if there is no balance (at least there is no balance for me, some people may find the "lighter" moments good, but I didn't) The show is just constantly depressing.The acting is "ok" at best, the jokes are not really funny, the drama is annoying and has a "seen it all before" feel to it, and all the characters are selfish, miserable, stupid ar$e-holes.People say this is the best show of all time, hmmm, I don't think so, this is not even in the same league as The Sopranos, and is certainly not as good as: Walking dead, Dexter, Game of Thrones, Mad Men and a few others I could name.I give it 3 stars because there were one or two moments of decent comedy, and the occasional bit of good writing, but how this stinking turd comprised of human misery rates so high generally is beyond me.


                
my husband and I never watched the show before, but I had an injury that left me out of work for a few weeks and my husband took some time off from his job, we spent 3 days binge watching season 1- season 5 pt1 of breaking bad. I love godfather 1&2, tony Montana is a fave character of mine, I've seen goodfellas more than I can count, and I recently saw "the family" in the theater and was very impressed.so, at least now you all know what kind of entertainment I like. black comedies, drug shoot out, mobster movies. anyways... we started off with season 1. it was a little slow moving at first, and I don't think I would have given it much of a chance if it weren't for all the hype. Bryan Cranston (Walter White)embodied Walt very well, I truly felt sorry for the poor guy, even though many times throughout the series I felt as if I was watching a darker version of Hal from Malcolm in the Middle (set included). Skylar white was a forgettable character, leaving only a slight impression of an overbearing nit picking nag of a wife to an already beaten down Walt. Hank the hapless DEA bro-in-law came across as the big talk small brained idiot threat borderline bully to Walt. and then there was Aaron Paul playing Jessie Pinkman. a burnout former student making every possible wrong decision and inadvertently thwarting disaster.the first couple of seasons I felt pity for the two main characters Walt and Jessie, I was rooting for them to not get caught, be able to turn a profit, or to come out unscathed. it wasn't a gut wrenching plot twisting season, just more of witnessing a journey for these two guys. Jessie seemed consistent, who ever wrote him did a good job, not only was he consistent as a junkie, big hearted idiot, but watching his character from start to almost finish was a joy, he progressed, his morals enhanced, he became more cautious more stoic he often did the right thing and knew when to call it quits. there was a defining character arch for Jessie. if any part of the show was worth viewing it was the storyline of Jessie Pinkman (as bland as it sometimes seemed, at least I wasn't disgusted in the character's actions/reactions)then there was Skylar White, the character of her progressed from a nagging housewife to a cold shouldered biatch sometimes I couldn't tell which was worst Walt or Skylar, her character was not very well written, she was supposed to be a smart woman, but all she came across as was a "do as I say not as I do" brat. helping her boss cook the books of his tax evasion but criticizing her husband for cooking meth to provide for his family. Having her ex-boss bullied to pay his taxes and thus keeping IRS eyes off her money laundering business, but judging Walt for taking out a crime boss who not only threatened to kill her brother in law, but also was a threat to her life and her children's lives. Then sleeping with her boss and pushing Walt out of the house and banning him from their kids. but when Walt started racking in the money while working for Gus then she was happy. it seemed like her character never really arched into anything but an annoying spoiled brat who was appeased only by money. and last there was Walt. I really was rooting for the guy, but he was an impulsive egotistical sociopath who never spoke up when he should have and never shut up when he needed to. by the end of watching the show, I just felt that Walt was little more than a self absorbed whiny man who would sob and wet himself if faced with a real threat of dying. (even though he had been faced with death earlier in the series) he wasn't the "badass" the hype of the show had lead me to believe that he was. I think the turning point for me was when he got jealous that Pinkman was getting more love from Gus than him, so his natural inclination was to take out Gus, (which was awesome BTW) but before killing Gus, Walt was taken out to the desert to get fired by Gus, Gus gave him a threat, but in no way up to this point was it clear that Gus would have gone back on his word and killed Walt or Walt's family. however Walt went off the deep end (like he always does, he thinks of the worst possible scenario and fixates on that until his actions change the course) in other words most of the incidents throughout the series could have been avoided with 2 things: 1. communication, and 2. Walt not overeating all in all I feel horrible I wasted a few days watching this over hyped series. the writing is inconsistent, plots and scenarios change drastically in an unrealistic way, but then with the exception of a few most of the characters never seemed to arch, never seemed to expand. I would have stopped watching if it weren't for the fact that my husband had control over the remote!
I gave this until the first episode of season 3. I understand that Walt is supposed to be an antihero but you should still care about the character. I couldn't find a single redeeming quality in any character. I was so disappointed to have wasted 20 hrs of my life.


                
Jesse is the worst thing about this show. There was a reason he was to be killed off at the end of the first season and they should have let it go at that. I would have preferred to see the progression of Walt alone, without his (Jesse) character's stupidity pushing the story line. To me this is the one flaw in the show. Here you have a character (Walt) who, over time, becomes the epitome of scum and ruthlessness ... and the story line is fully manipulated by the aimless idiocy from the Jesse character. It. just. does. not. wash. I don't care how good the acting is. In any reality, that idiot would be dead. If it wasn't for the finite nature of the series (ending season 5), I would have left it during season 3 (and i know a lot of people who did). It's just ridiculous that he was left in.
I get it. A disrespected teacher with cancer decides to be a drug manufacturer to help his family after he passes. There must be some good in him - who are we to judge? After all his wife works for a tax cheat, his brother in law is abusive to Mexicans, and his son is disrespectful.Trouble with moral ambiguity is it ultimately excuses all behavior. The people who make this program live in Hollywood so obviously they use drugs, know a lot about drugs, and know others involved in it. After all they're cool and it's a good way to make money by creating a program that helps amoral people feel better about themselves just because they snort a little, or cheat a little.The question I'd like to ask is whether the makers of this program - the actors, producers, sponsors, and indirectly the viewers would like this program if it meant hit men with guns and axes would stalk their families and kill their family members?I didn't think so. The moral - don't exploit tragedy just because it's cool, it makes money, and it makes amoral people feel better about themselves. If you're not part of the solution you are part of the problem.
