9.6 rating? Are you fu**ing kidding me?! This TV Show is very boring. I watched whole 1 season, even 1-2 episodes from the Season 2, as people said me, it gets better & better after some episodes, but I couldn't stand it anymore. It's not enthralling at all, even more, plot is very boring, nothing special. In short, guy (chemistry teacher) is dying from a cancer & he decides to do crazy stuff before he leaves this world & decides to make drugs (methamphetamine) with one of his former student & they sell it on a black market. And that's all! The only pros of this TV Show are some actors, which play really good, especially the main character, but it can't help this TV Show when plot is uninteresting & boring. During last episodes I was so bored, that I didn't even watch it normally. I was just listening to it & browsing the Internet at the same time. I quit at the beginning of the Season 2 & I don't even have a desire to continue it. Definitely not worth the 9.6. It's very, very overrated. I'm giving it 4 out of 10.
I finished the very last episode ("felina") today and felt a sort of disappointment - I was hoping that this critically acclaimed "best show of all time" would get better, turn into the masterpiece that everyone seems to consider it, at some point become interesting, or, at the very least, worthy of my time... it did not.At no point was I invested in anything going on. Never did the show manage to lure me in, make me care about anyone. There were no interesting characters whatsoever (Except for maybe Saul Goodman, but he was hardly the main character) - sure, it packed a bunch of great performances, the actors honestly did a truly good job, but what's the point when the script is so devoid of character, boring and hopelessly uninteresting. The show might be considered a good character study - Walt's descent into this becoming a nigh-monster who will stoop to some extremely despicable things is somewhat eye-catching, but this could have worked as a movie, maybe even a one-season show, but as it is, breaking bad is simply too pointless, boring and devoid of any sort of charm to be considered a good show.


                
To be honest, this show is OK, but it is nowhere near worth the hype. I watched the first three seasons in full and was not compelled to watch the next episode after the season three finale. The depth of this show is ankle deep. The characters are not quite believable, and sometimes, downright grating. I contribute the success of this show to: binge watching availability on Netflix, and the easy money mentality. It's OK, but if you are looking for a drama that is actually compelling, look elsewhere. I think the only reason this show has such a high rating, is the fact that it has such a hard-core following. So if you feel that you might like it, go ahead and give it a shot. Apparently, the IMDb reviewers think it's the best television series of all time. But in my opinion, is it really better than the intricacies and depth of character in Lost? The wit of Friends? The plot of Game of Thrones? The well thought out House of Cards? It is rated higher than all of these...The answer is a resounding NO.


                
I decided to watch this after hearing how good it was - I hadn't watched any of it by the time the last episode had aired.After watching the pilot I thought that the show had potential and was looking forward to getting into a new show - (having just finished Dexter and whilst The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones were both on a break).The short first season spent its time building us up for nothing to actually happen. But as it was quite short and all I had heard was how amazing this show is I opened up Season 2. This was very much of the same - every episode building up to something but not much actually happening.Admittedly Season 3 was a bit better but still quite boring in comparison to many people telling me it's the best TV show ever. In all honesty I haven't bothered with the last 2 seasons as I feel that I have lost several hours of my life watching the first 3 and it's not worth putting the effort in watching the rest. There are plenty of TV shows worth watching before this one. I cannot honestly see why this program has high reviews.


                
I now watch the third season to waste time and am amazed how this got it high rankings. It has been nothing but, killing, drug dealing, drug usage, deaths, overdoses, orphans, stealing, lying, diseases, depression, stress, fighting, injustice, scamming, murdering and massive disasters, divorce, therapy, rehab, cancer, peoples lives get destroyed, No humor, no normal healthy human relations. What is there left, a guy making a drug empire? We have that in Scarface, and it's nothing like this, maybe because it isn't filled with 5 season of bad things happening to everyone involved. It's all just depressing. The acting is good, but the script is just depressing....


                
It's already famous, to me this is an average TV show. Lack of suspension & excitement, terrible Spanish, non realistic character development and horrible ending. They extend a short story by adding lots of camera details and spinning the story. For DEA character, how can be any DEA agent that much dumb?It's more like a family TV show, lots of emotional scenes.


                
I don't like the show. I think the premise is original and promising. I also think Brian Cranston is well cast in the lead, which is reminiscent of the role made famous by Michael Douglas in Falling Down. However, everything else seems to fall flat. They are trying to create a dark dramatic series in the mold of the Sopranos, the Shield, or Rescue Me, but this show just does not pull me in despite my giving it chance after chance. For the three aforementioned shows, I was hooked after the very first episode I watched of each, but after weeks of watching Breaking Bad, I am still indifferent with regard to the show.As to what specifically I think the problem is, I am not sure. Outside of the lead, I don't care for any of the characters, so we can start with no meaningful character development for the supporting cast. The bald friend/neighbor is annoying to me whenever he is on screen. That actor seems miscast in this show. He is cast as a macho, bumbling,and not terribly bright or insightful and I have the paralyzing suspicion that he is supposed to provide some sort of comic relief, which does not come through. He looks like he should be playing a role more in the mold of Vic Mackey from the Shield. I haven't cared for some of the story lines, and some of the stuff was just flat out unbelievable. An example was when Walt's hostage escaped and the situation resolved itself by the running into a tree and knocking himself out. I have never seen or heard of someone knocking himself/herself out cold by running into a tree like that. It was a cop-out way to resolve a very sticky situation for the main character and IMO an indication of sub-par effort from the writers. It will be a shame if this show fails, because the premise is original and promising.
I am kind of addicted to this show even though it is somewhat ridiculous and many of the characters are annoying as heck. But, it is still addictive...like the meth drug itself. I don't really like Walt that much and Jesse is a complete POS. But, I do like Mike very much and Gus is pretty cool most of the time as well. Hank the DEA guy is really annoying and I wish he would get killed off soon. The show has a few really riveting scenes the best being when Hank almost got killed by the 2 cartel guys...oh how i wish this fat dope would go away. I still can't believe Jesse just let the guy cold cock him in the face with no defensive measures whatsoever...come on writers! Anyway, there are many things about this show that are bad, but there are also some pretty cool things as well. There is nothing cool about drug dealing so please don't think there is. The show doesn't show much of the addicted side of the coin, some but not much. Oh, there was one scene when Jesse went to a couple of drug addicts house and to get his stolen money back...another dumb scenario with totally phony drugged out people and a little boy who was cute. That was such a stupid scene. I'll give it a 4 out of 10..my favorite TV show continues to be Californication...oh how I wish it would come back soon.
This review is my personal opinion about Breaking Bad, the way I looked at it. I do not have the intention to insult neither the producer, the actors or the people who liked the show (if you did, please be happy with it). You have the right to not read my review about it. Last year I was finishing The Soprano's, which I believe, was a very very great show! I was looking for something new, and I heared people talking all the time about "Breaking Bad" which is thought to be awesome by many people and the story line sounds great. So I decided to install Netflix.After the first 4 parts I stopped watching. I really could not be bothered what happened on the screen. But the lovers kept telling me I should watch further because I was not supposed to know what I was talking about. I tried again, and than stopped at part 9. Today i finished all parts of all seasons, and I let you know what I think about it. The good things:1: The story Idea is great (a chemist teacher who ends up making a lot of money with cooking excellent meth).2: Mr. Fring, he acts very well.3: Hank, also a pretty good actor. 4: There are only 4 cool scenes in the entire show: 1. The Head on the Turtle. 2. Mr Fring who dies in an awesome way. (1 and 2 are Tarantino style). 3 Walt who make a tape in which he accuses Hank. 4. The shooting from the car in the last part(16).5. Nothing else.And now the reasons why I believe this show is Bad: 1. Very unrealistic human behavior. I do not believe what I see on the screen. The human interactions are so lost from reality. Human beings do not react like the people from the show. Even the worst sci-fi movie is more realistic than this. I have never seen a show or a movie where people behave so strange as in this one. I give you a few examples: A: Hank finds a mask in the desert which has imprints of the lab at school were Walt works. He asks Walt "you know this one?". Walt denies. 3 Seconds later they look at the inventory in the school, two maskes are missing. Hank does not bother, he does not find the behavior of Walt suspicious, no he arrests someone else from school because that one blowed a joint. That totally does not make sense to me. B: Jesse gives his both friends a bit of meth he stole, and he asks them to sell it at a rehab (???). Whereas they had plenty people to sell it to in the first 2 seasons, they now looking for ex junks to sell to. Jesse asks to one: did you sell anything? Yes, 1 gram, he got replied. To whom? Jesse asks. He pointed out the other friend (who Jesse also gave drugs to sell to). How stupid is that??C: Walter asks external cleaners to clean up the methlab. He know there are camera's and Fring is looking at him. D: That plane crash, come on people!???E: There are people fighting in Jesse's house, and Jesse cannot be bothered. He smokes a joint on the couch (yeah right). This would never happen in real life, even not at junks houses. F: That whole stupid scene where Hank had a set up with one dealer sitting on a couch outside and where Saul arranged a body double of "Heisenberger".F: Hank gives his life to find Heisenberger, he even refuses a better job. And than, he got shot and end up in a hospital because of Heisenberger. A few weeks later his colleague from homicide visits Hank and tells him he has lead to a supermeth lab. You would expect Hank grabs his documents, because it is THE HOT LEAD to Heisenberger. But no<U+0085>Hank ignores this document and watches TV. I have never seen such a dull scene in my life before. 2. Annoying acting. Especially that stupid Jesse Pinkman with his particular look and his screaming all the time (even junks do not behave so stupid as he). Also Walther White acts like an idiot, with this particular stand all the time (legs wide out, arms stretched down) and screams all the time "Jessie, Jessie". And than that ridiculous black hat!. Skyler, Marie and that stupid son of Walter are annoying to. 3.Tuco, is supposed to be a very big criminal. But screams all the time and throws money to Walt and Jesse at a car dump. Criminals that level, do not behave to stupid like he. 4. Very boring and slow progression. Almost all the parts are the same. Nothing happens, but stupid scenes where things happen that never would happen in real life. Except for parts 7 to 13 from season 4. Those are somewhat OK, and make me the show to give a 4 instead of a 1 star. 5.The train robbery. Is done like the A-team. All of a sudden Jesse is smart and explains stuff to Todd as if he has an IQ of 151. 6.The flash forwards did not work for me. I was not curious what would happen in the next parts. Except for 1 particular flash forward where Walt has a gun in the back of his car. 7.No humor, no surprises (everything what happens is soooo predictable), no plot twists. My conclusion: this show sucks big time mostly because of the unrealistic human interactions. The acting is very bad (Sesame Street level) and almost all scenes are very annoying. I did not catch me at all. I really wonder why most people like this show.
Well, I started watching Breaking Bad for a the hype about it. Always rated as best tv show in youtube videos, and I read so many good reviews about it. When I started watching I wasn't impressed at all. Don't get me wrong, it is a good show, but certainly not the best in history; I mean like any of you who say Breaking Bad is the best have you watched Game of Thrones? Compring Game of Thrones to Breaking Bad is a crime in my opinion. Season one and two can be made a movie instead of twenty eposides full of boring scenes( breakfast scenes most of all). Season three and four it got a little better, more action and suspense going on. Season five is legendary, many events going, they finally started sacrificing characters. But the show never reached the hype about it. I wish I can understand why this show is rated 9.5.


                
