BREAKING BAD is a seriocomic study of a middle-aged man, a high school chemist teacher, on the brink of losing it over a financially poor marriage and the fact that he's leading a double life that his wife knows nothing about. As the harried man, BRYAN CRANSTON delivers a solid performance, full of realistic touches--laced with bitter humor and honesty--his superb work holding the whole episode together.Seems the need for cash sets up the idea for him to consider partnership with an ex-student who deals in drug sales. After viewing a newscast showing stacks of easy money from a drug bust, Cranston gets the idea to ask his brother-in-law, a DEA agent, if he can accompany him on one of the busts. While there, he spots an ex-student escaping from the scene and hooks up with him later to propose a partnership wherein he'll make the drugs and the student will sell them.Meanwhile, a visit to the doctor because of a dry cough reveals that he has lung cancer, something he doesn't want to tell his wife because she's expecting a baby. Desperate for "easy money", he gets heavily involved with the ex-student (another brilliant performance by AARON PAUL), and together they find themselves caught up in drastic circumstances with two bodies to get rid of as soon as their drug activities go awry. The sequence where Cranston lets the phosphine gas (while mixing ingredients) do the job of ridding himself of the two men in the van, is a model of suspense.There's a payoff in virtually every scene, full of unexpected twists that seem credible and always true to the characters. The suspense is almost non-stop, the action scenes are briskly handled, the humor is diabolic, and the dialog is always sharp as a knife. In an amusing breakfast scene, with the wife buying things on the cheap and making substitutions, the son remarks: "This bacon tastes like band-aids." It's as dark as a black comedy can get, but played so earnestly by BRYAN CRANSTON and the cast that the viewer is immediately hooked into the story which begins with a bang.
This is a hard show to review. The first few seasons were incredible but I feel that they dragged it out too long. As the weeks go by I found myself thinking "really, there are 5 seasons of this". I am truly diverse in my tastes and don't get offended very easily at all. I love gore, gritty, sci-fi, fantasy, comedy, romance, animation. You get the picture I really do not discriminate and instead judge on it's merits. But I found that Breaking Bad exhausted me. Five seasons of disgusting, corruption, ferralness, deplorable human behaviour took it's toll on my level of appreciation for this show. If it had been shorter I would have enjoyed it more. I know it was revolutionary and truly realistic but in the end I despised it for being great and the fact that I had to see it through to the end.I know people will think I am mad for writing this but does a show that is fantastic but sucks the soul and heart out of you make for as good TV as everyone believes; or was everyone else too caught up in the hype to admit their true feelings about Breaking Bad.


                
To provide for his family (pregnant wife Anna Gunn and teenager son RJ Mitte)'s future after he is diagnosed with lung cancer, a chemistry genius called Wlter (Bryan Cranston) turned high school teacher teams up with an ex-student named Jesse to cook and sell the world's purest crystal meth proves to be remarkably proficient in this new world as he begins manufacturing and selling Methamphetamine with one of his former students . Though his talent for chemistry appears to be wasted at the high school level , Walter does seems to enjoy bringing science to young minds . He join forces with Jesse (Aaron Paul), a former student of Walter White's at High School , he is now a producer and occasional user of Meth, known in the area as "Cap'n Cook." This affinity for teaching and respect themselves can be seen in the relationship between Walter and Jesse . As Walter thrust into a partnership with an irresponsible, burn-out criminal . The Meth makes them very rich very quickly, but it attracts the attention of his DEA brother in law , Hank (Dean Norris) , who is always hot on his tail.A main plot point of Breaking Bad concerns the main character, Walt, being a bona fide chemistry genius being accompanied by Aaaron Paul as Jesse who is the classic underachiever , he clearly possesses talents, but is lacking dramatically when it comes to common sense and follow-through . Amusing as well entertaining relationship between Walter/Bryan Cranston and Jesse/Aaron Paul, this paves the way for a classic Odd Couple dynamic as the conservative middle-aged teacher . Very good acting by all cast such as Walter , a mature chemistry teacher at Wynne High School in Albuquerque, New Mexico , he is diagnosed with lung cancer and given approximately two years to live , Aaron Paul as Jesse , he grew up in a somewhat privileged home, the oldest child of an upper middle class Albuquerque family, Jesse was ultimately kicked out of his home due to repeated drug use ; Anna Gunn as Skyler , she is no shrinking violet , she is fiercely protective of her children will do whatever she can to keep them shielded from dangerous influences , she is a patient woman, but that patience will become tested as Walter descends deeper in the seedy world of the meth trade and Dean Norris as an agent with the Drug Enforcement Agency in Albuquerque , he is married to Skyler White's sister, Marie, finely performed by Betsy Brendt , he has a somewhat stereotypical personality for an officer of the law, a gruff, mans man who is cynical about criminals and has aspirations to climb the ladder in the DEA, perhaps moving to a larger department or to headquarters in Washington. Other import characters of this series are the followings : Bob Odenkirk as Saul Goodman . Steven Michael Quezada as Steven Gomez , Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut and Giancarlo Esposito as Gustavo 'Gus' Fring . Sony and AMC were initially reluctant to cast Bryan Cranston because of his previous comedic roles and considered both John Cusack and Matthew Broderick for Walter White. When they both declined, Vince Gilligan got to cast Cranston. But for the writers' strike in the first season, Aaron Paul's Jesse Pinkman would have been written out by the 9th episode. During the hiatus caused by the strike, creator Vince Gilligan reconsidered and, impressed by Paul's portrayal of Jesse, decided to reinstate the character. .The actor who portrays Walter Jr. in the series (RJ Mitte), actually has cerebral palsy like his character on the show. However, his real life affliction is much milder than his character's, and he had to learn to walk with crutches and slow down his speech to play the part.


                
I watched the first three seasons of Breaking Bad.I liked the series, although it is much more flawed than I expected.What I liked:excellent cast and chemistry between the lead actors - refreshing take on drug crime genre - some very funny momentsWhat I disliked: - too many lengthy parts - often we're caught in really boring everyday drudgery that the producers apparently didn't have the heart to cut out - too many incongruent parts over time - the character development is weak and made me want to switch off after a while. I kept watching purely for the quality of the actors (who make up for it somewhat) - way too many clichés - too much repetition - some characters become irritating after a while, because they lack real growth (e.g. Skyler)


                
I was had some accumulated downtime and decided to have a BB marathon after the rave reviews with the latest season. So I went through all 5 seasons within a week. Perhaps I had too high an expectation from the onset but boy did some episodes bomb out. Conversations were dragging, plots were thin, some were so drawn out that I had resorted to the 'forward' function just to get things going. Too much was revolving around the 'local' scene, perhaps they should have written more of the cartel factor. Anyway, it seems like a 'self fulling prophecy'. Everyone gives good reviews, comments about the show, so it has to be good. Perhaps there isn't anything spectacular out there so this has to be good. Not that Prison Break was my favorite but it will run circles around BB. Granted season 5 of BB was good, but 1-4... only marginally acceptable. I'm a long time reader of the reviews here but this disappointment on BB urged me to write this review.
Honestly, this show is about the increasingly poor decisions of an egotistical bratty man-child who has every opportunity in the world to do right by himself and his family, but still chooses to do wrong with every opportunity presented to him, and, of course, his poorly adjusted younger side-kick. I don't find this show as "amazing" as some people oddly seem to find it, but it is a decent show that dramatizes the lives and lifestyles of the meth world from the perspectives of a man trying to live a double life and those who circle around him. Breaking Bad has a good cast that helps tie everything together, which helps save the show from itself when the writing gets a bit wishy-washy and over-the-top. It's entertaining and keeps the viewer coming back for more. All in all, this is a good watch, but expect to cringe at the broken decisions of broken people doing broken things.


                
Now I am not the conformist type. so I"ll just say it.... Breaking bad is really overrated. There are hundreds of reviews here about the show and it's characters and narrative and everything else so I don't need to get into those things. Here I will discuss about why I didn't like it as much as everyone else. I really don't know why people even some critics stated that this is the best show of all time. How can they just say that? We all have our personal choices, our preferences, one cannot just force us to like something more than we actually do.I started watching breaking bad when a friend of mine suggested it. So I did but after three seasons I really couldn't figure out what's so special about it. I mean it's good. It really is good but it just feels banal. Like it has been done before. Yes, Bryan Cranston was amazing and he deserves every bit of credit for his performance but still I didn't get it. Maybe some of you might say I'm not smart enough or maybe it's the hype that got the show this much popularity.When the show was on air it was everywhere. People were talking about it on TV shows,social media,MEMES, where ever I looked I really could not ignore it. So I thought I should give it a try. Maybe I was expecting a bit more but Shouldn't I ? The things that people were saying about this was ridiculous... But I was disappointed. If you compare this to the shows that I adored, for example The Sopranos, The wire and even other shows like House MD, Boston Legal,The Shield and shows that I watch now like Mad Men, Sherlock, House of cards.. I doubt that this show beats all these amazing pieces of visual narrative.... Whether you agree with me or not I felt that I actually learned something from those shows. They enlightened me in a way that nothing could.I was just blown away by their storytelling, their performances, direction, dialogs everything. I really didn't experience anything like that before.Right after you watch an episode you feel a sense of fulfillment, and at the same time you want more. This might sound crazy but believe me this is what I felt. I was hooked from the first few episodes. I changed my schedule just to make time to watch at least one episode of a particular show. I was that much in love with those shows. But when it came to Breaking Bad I just didn't feel that excitement, that hunger.Yes, some of the episodes and some parts of other ones were excellent in my opinion but very soon I started to lose interest even though I did became a fan of Bryan Cranston. In my eyes it's a really good show and SHOULD be applauded for what it has achieved but I think some are giving it way more attention than it actually deserves. But like I said, everyone is entitled to their opinion.Now,you might ask me then why do so many people like it.Well,the answer is actually in front us. In recent times we have seen or heard of many things like people or movies or books or other things that have become very popular but are they good? Being popular doesn't always mean a thing has to be good.And there is the psychological factor. Even though most people want to be themselves but the reality is that they just want to fit in. Like you might not like a certain movie or a song or a book or anything else for that matter that most of your peers liked but you really don't feel comfortable sharing that, fearing it might make you different and people may not like that. We all know what peer pressure can do to us. We've all been through it at some points of our lives. But have we ever really outgrown it? We see and hear a lot of things in our day to day lives and we think we forget most of it but our subconscious might not.. There are certain things that we think might not effect us that much but it does. These simple things that we tend to overlook sometimes influence us in a way we never know. When we see the news on television we think they are being neutral like political propaganda but they aren't. All the news centers are in some way trying to express a biased attitude towards certain people. And all of us are more or less aware of that. The same thing applies to this too. Because some people in the media are just saying such nice things about it that people want to agree with them because they might like what they say. It happens to us everyday. We want to agree to what our friends like, our loved ones like. I guess it's normal in some way.Most if not all the TV shows and not just that, all the other things like films, animation, books and other forms of narrative that I've liked, I've had very little or no prior knowledge of how good they were and those were the things that I've enjoyed the most.In this review, I didn't try to make people understand that this show is BAD in any way. It's not. It's very good. Please give this a shot, you might enjoy it more than me.I just wanted to share what I felt. I hope no one gets offended by this because that was never my intention....


                
Sure enough, I don't watch shows that get extremely hyped during their airtime; it leaves you longing for episodes, dreading cliffhangers and missing events just so you could see that one final episode. I like to start watching when it's all over and I have some spare time to watch it all through to the end and done.Breaking Bad, with its incredibly high score on IMDb, was on my watch list ever since it ended couple years back. I mostly base my viewings on IMDb scores and thus I had very high hopes for the show. The first season started of well, bit slow but it was new and refreshing, unlike anything else I had watched before and it hooked me. Season 2 was of a better pace and kept me gripping. However through season 3 I started getting annoyed; some of the characters choices were completely devout of logic and I started being confused as to why certain actions were made and how it was supposed to help the story. Ever since Walt admitted the whole thing to his wife, that's where I lost confidence in the show and the characters. It was illogical and not plausible for the story. His wife being a complete bitch all the time afterwards just felt like an easy solution to keep her in the show. Season 4 is where I lost it. They got back together, sort of, he rants and she leaves, again... It became repetitive, and at no point did I feel suspense as should be with a good drama/thriller show or film. I stopped watching in the middle of episode 7, as I had abandoned all mimetic ties with the characters; I didn't believe them any longer. There was a relapse of character developments: one turning junkie and angry again, losing his family again, bla bla bla. My biggest question remains this: why did Walt keep on protecting this Jesse, even with his 'steady job'? If he would have just let the kid be killed, it would have made for a much more interesting development, him becoming a darker kingpin meth cook, etc. Jesse as a character was becoming annoying and way to shallow and repetitive throughout the show, and I felt like the writers simply kept looking for pity excuses to keep him in the show.I won't even start on the acting performance of Walt's wife, which was absolutely ridiculous. I get that they needed the baby for the story, but the age gap, having a kid at 50, that was simply unbelievable, in the literal sense of that word. If they had made him let's say 42, that would still have been believable, but 50, come on? Perhaps that's typical of American show, I don't know; they don't believe in birth control, I assume? Shame, as it started off very promising. That's why you don't believe the hypes, it was probably for commercial purposes, to sell goodies and stuff, because frankly, it was good, but really not hype-worthy. By the end, it felt like any typical American TV show and that's what bugged me. Till this day I prefer British TV, and it seems America, for me personally, has a lot to catch up to with regard to shows like Broadchurch, Sherlock, Shameless, and so on. Comedy-wise, well, that is an obvious one...If you don't set your expectations too high, this is a good show. If you believe in the hype when going into it, you will be disappointed.
Firstly I'd just like to say that its likely no show will ever get a 10/10 but for breaking bad to be the closest thing to a 10/10 is strange to me. The show is good, there is no disputing that. It has a great plot, the characters are played wonderfully by Cranston, Anna Gunn and of course Aaron Paul, but there is a lot of good actors now a days and so a show aired to millions should be acted well.The reason the show, for me, only gets at most an 8 out of 10 is because of the repetitive nature of it. This review maybe subject to criticism and people will not like me for putting down the ever amazing "Breaking Bad" but I challenge people to disregard what i'm saying as false because its undeniable that the show is repetitive. Walt and Jesse get together and cook meth, they come across a drug lord or someone higher in the drug hierarchy, find a way to knock them off their perch and the cycle continues. In between this larger plot repetition is the smaller plot repetition of Walt falling out with Jesse, falling out with His wife Skylar, and then managing to make up with them.I understand its hard for TV shows to keep viewers on their toes and to not know whats coming next but its never good when a show is repetitive as this one. I've spoke to a lot of people with similar opinion and maybe its just me as a person and the kind of things I like but its hard to deny that the show repeats itself a lot once its been pointed out.With all this being said the show is still worth a watch and is a good production definitely something innovative, my gripe is just with the fact that the show is so highly rated, above the likes of True Detective, Lost, Prison Break, The Wire, The Sopranos. Im not saying that these shows are a lot better necessarily but it should not be rated higher than them.
The story is captivating and the series has very interesting and unforgettable characters like Walt, Hank, "Better Call Saul" Goodman, Hector Salamanca etc. Unfortunately after season 3 there are serious dramatic incredibilities, the most important is when Jesse disappears from Walt's house, after making everything soaked in gasoline, his car open, and Walt does not suspect that somebody took him. It is so incredible and does not follow previous storyline and inside logic of the character. After this you cannot believe in the future episodes. Other thing is that Walt uses the same mobile after knowing that he is investigated, who can believe this? Even a toddler knows not to use your mobile for discussing important issues. What a pity. It could have been one of the best series, but because of these inconsistencies, it is not.
10/10? 9/10?Before people start bashing me with dislikes I gotta say, I watched the entire series this summer because a friend of mine recommended me as the single best TV show to date, as well I read reviews on several website recommending Breaking Bad as a must watch. By the end of the show I still don't get how or when this show got such insane amount of hype that made most people praise it as the Overlord of TV. I am not in any way saying Breaking Bad is bad, far from it, Bryan and Aaron are great actors, and the tragic plot is believable enough for me to stick with it to the end, but calling a show which only benefits from when Bryan and Aaron are around can't be called a Masterpiece. Breaking Bad isn't a masterpiece, its side characters and villain are way far from original, Walter "home time" is the pure definition of bore, as an incredible slow pace, some episodes fell meaningless to the overall point of the story, the women on this show are a disgrace as characters, one is worse than the next, etc. TL:DR - For some reason this show is highly overrated, described as one of the best shows around, but its that is just now true, at all. At best is good TV, a good drama, with a good anti-hero, a show that most of the times can figure out itself, if it should be a comedy or drama. Just don't be on the hypewagon, Breaking Bad isn't really that worth.


                
It seems to me that everyone loves this show on here, but I can't be the only one who sees big problems with Breaking Bad. First of all, how can anyone possibly think this show has great writing!? I have to admit that the first season had promise and I thought it could and should get better with the second season, but it turned out I was way off. Every single character is a stereotype! I'll start with the "bad guys". Tuco and his cousins? What is that!? Tuco's acting and actions are way over the top to be anywhere close to being believable. As for his cousins.. every time they came on screen, I just wanted to laugh out loud with how ridiculous and cheesy they were(lol at the dragging the axe scenes straight out of a horror B-movie). Gus anyone? Another way over the top stereotype of a business-man/gangster character who you want to punch in the face to get that stupid look off his face. The "good guys" are not much better. Starting with Pinkman and his unbelievably stupid actions and arguments with Walt that make absolutely no sense and seem to be put in there to make some sort of suspense between the characters. Although Hank is getting more interesting as the seasons go on, in the first 2 seasons though he was somewhat of a comic relief type with jokes that failed miserably. Now we have Saul replacing him, who's failing even worse. Skyler is just very annoying. Another thing to be seen across the reviews is good acting. I'm sorry I just don't see it, excluding Bryan Cranston/Walter White. Who is the only interesting character that made me watch 3 seasons of this ridiculous over the top storytelling and acting.


                
I heard amazing things about the show from friends who are on the latest series right now. so i started looking into the show and seeing what it was like and i read so many good things on IMDb and other review sites saying it was the greatest show ever so naturally i was very excited about it. So i brought season one and started watching and i even text my friend after episode one saying how amazing it was so i sat there and watched like episodes 1, 2 and 3 all in one go and LOVED it. but then i got onto episode four and i was bored, the show went from being super entertaining to watching a guy on screen doing absolutely nothing. In my opinion the show just went super boring after the mid-way point of series one. However i stayed glued to it, hoping it would pick back up and after eight episodes i decided it wasn't even worth carrying it on. everyone who has heard my opinion have all said the same thing ''you need to wait until series three, that's when it gets really good''. I don't want to wait until a third series of a program before it gets good. i think what made it much more off a lesser experience for me is that i was watching season 1,2 and 3 of boardwalk and walking dead right before i started watching breaking bad. and i must say that i honestly don't know why breaking bad is so popular when shows like boardwalk and walking dead exist. 5/10.


                
Breaking Bad follows a cancer-diagnosed chemistry teacher that suddenly decides to produces methamphetamine, initially to collect enough money to secure his family's future once he is gone.His partner is a cool but immature meth-user in his early 30s. Together they form an unlikely duo that has the combination of great chemistry knowledge and a certain know-how into the drug business.Season 1 is arguably the best season I have seen of any action series. The characters are getting into realistic scenarios and their reactions and solutions are plausible indeed. Yet at the same time, it's packed with action and drama. Super great. 9.9/10 Season 2 follows up in this footstep. Here we also see a huge character development, especially from Walt, who turns into a more hard character. 9.6/10 Season 3 makes the transition into really big-time production and the drama of power struggles in the drug industry truly emerges. The two main characters feels less safe and are afraid of their lives, especially Walt. Their actions to maintain their own personal safety are not always easy to buy though. What was the flagship of this series the first two season, namely that you could understand and accept all the actions the characters took, are fading away. And there are a lot of "logical plot holes" like the fact that they go over hell and high water to get hold of methyl-amine (which they pronounce completely wrong by the way, even Walt which always instantly reminds you of that he in fact is not a chemist at all) when in rather common knowledge that it is very easy to make from readily available ingredients and trivial chemistry. 8.8/10Season 4. The plot holes and the "Why didn't they just..."-question builds up exponentially in this season. The amount of revealing information that are being communicated over phone in this season is completely unbelievable and make the show less believable. It really challenges the border of artistic license. The show starts to TRY and be sophisticated, complex and intelligent, but in reality it just loses the nice realism and rationality the show had over the first 2 or 3 seasons. If you want a lot of twist, you MUST follow up by convincing the audience at some time why the things happened the way they did when several other options seemed much more natural. Unfortunately for the most part, the show never answer these questions, which is a big thumbs down.To summarize, a lot of the drama in this season are based on "Well OK, but why did he do that instead?" It almost feel like you are watching 24, which is not a complement in any way. A lot of actions are not logical, nor ever explained. You just get more and more question marks, which are, unfortunately never answered, thus the comparison to the show 24, which is notorious for this bad habit. 7.3/10 Season 5. Some of the episodes are really interesting and surprising, but they are in no way intelligent. The viewer keeps getting insulted by the lack of continuity and rationality. But most people accept this as there is so much tension and drama, but really, considering how great the two first seasons was, you cannot help but feeling let down. Some episodes completely kills the great character development that has happened over the first five seasons. 7.5/10 And I am wondering how people in here keep referring to Walt as smart. A lot of the things he does is actually outright stupid, naive, over-protective and last but not least, irrational for the sake of irrationality. It is as if they want the viewers to think "Man, he is so smart, I didn't see that twist coming." when in fact if you sit down and think about it, the twist was in no way a proof of "Walt's intelligence", but just a random deviation from rationality. The ricin story is arguably one of the greatest examples of this. The plan is so complex and risky, with a very limited probability of a successful preferably outcome, which makes it easy to think of a handful of other ways to accomplish the same goals with much less effort and risks. But I guess it is good to make good drama and unfortunately the last half of Breaking Bad is more about making good drama and action, whereas the first half was just a top-quality show where no unanswered question-mark was left unanswered for to long...Overall, a great action drama show, but be prepared to be disappointed after a few seasons (unless you only watch BB for the violence that is as apparently a lot of people do) as it goes all "24" after a while. Action and Drama wins over intelligence in the end...It's amazing how much hate people are spreading in here as soon as a person does not unconditionally praise this show into the sky. I think it says a lot about a big part of the audience this show had...
Season 1&2 are mind blowing good. Though Season 2 is slightly uneven between episodes , the overall impression is coherent and some episodes even stand out as some the best of the whole series.Episode 3 Is a major change in pace and a very obvious brain-drain in both direction and the all important drama becomes scetchy and loses a lot of flow compared to Season 1&2 ,wich the actors in no way are to blame. They are indeed making the process somewhat believable despite the over-the-top cuts between scenes,moods and the gradual brakedown of the portrayed characters. I am still to watch season 4 in full (There is season 5 also) And Season 4 in this moment (Episode 3) is moving towards more display of blood sputtering then the smart psychological thriller "Braking Bad" started out with in season 1&2. Sad but true.


                
These series became really popular. I get why, it does explore some themes that are trending nowadays, with envolving characters that really make you want to know what's next in their story.But after watching it all I think it was not that good, not to be one of the best rated series of the whole story of televison. You get to the point that you starting watching it just form curiosity, but the story itself is really not that good.


                
Breaking Bad is not a bad show. It is very well produced, has good actors for the most part, some decent ideas, including a very good one that serves as the main plot, and is fast-paced enough to keep your interest. However, don't be fooled by other reviewers that Breaking Bad might actually be comparable to shows like 'The Wire', 'The Sopranos' or other series masterpieces. 'Breaking Bad' is more comparable to '24', a well executed popcorn series, that mixes action and suspense with a dark overtone. The writing is not quite as good as that of '24', but on the other hand it does not require as much suspension of disbelief as '24' does, even though 'Breaking Bad' also tends to become quite ridiculous in later seasons.The first season was generally the best. It had a fresh idea and told it with a plan in mind. After that, the show gets a bit too unbelievable, repetitive, and popcornish. It'll probably hold your interest to the last minute, but much of it is style over substance, and you won't nearly get as much out of the series as you will out of shows such as 'The Wire' or 'Mad Men'.
Breaking Bad is a good show that is worthy of praise however it is not worthy of iconic status. While it started quite poorly and dragged on in its initial seasons the show certainly improved in the final seasons. Even some of most loyal fans would agree Season 1 had a slow start. Unlike iconic shows that hit the ground running Breaking Bad failed to impress at the start. While the series is about the transformation of a character which came together full circle in the end the series is lucky it never got cancelled at the beginning because of the dullness and unimpressive story lines. Far better shows that showed more promise have not been given the same chance like Breaking Bad but towards the final seasons fans who stuck to the show were rewarded. The series finale has to be the best series finale I have ever seen, it was perfect. Hence I gave a stronger rating. The stars of the show do a great job with their characters and the viewer enjoys the odd and unusual partnership between Walter White and Jesse Pinkman. We also have a few solid performances from other characters such as Gus, Walter's brother in law, Hank, and Saul Goodman who hit it out of the park. However other characters such as Skylar White really annoy and frustrate the viewer. Besides her selfishness and coldness she is simply unlikeabale as a character. I do not believe it deserves to be in IMDb's top 10. While many say this show is indeed a journey, it was a boring and rocky journey to begin with. It was initially unimpressive, slow and failed to hit the ground running as great shows often do. A good journey contains valuable nuggets or plots that entices its viewers. It is definitely not in the same league as Game of Thrones which can be regarded as an epic. The spin off show by its creator, Better Call Saul impresses and excels in areas where Breaking Bad falls short. So you better call and watch Saul which is a much better show and showcases far better writing and story lines. Overall a decent show but it definitely saved its best and very memorable acts for the end - 7/10


                
I put off watching this for a long time as it sounded like it would be quite depressing. I am therefore surprised to find that it is actually quite good.Only criticisms I would have is that it moves incredibly slowly at times and is frustrating as a result. Also the female characters in this show are unbelievably infuriating to watch. Like someone distilled the essence right out of a screeching cat, added in some dragon's blood and then mixed it all up into two loud, single-minded vaguely human shaped monsters with all the personality and charisma of shop mannequins.I know that is sort of the point but I honestly cannot understand how any man in his right mind could be in a marriage with someone like either of them without going totally off the rails long before the cancer or drugs. If ever there was a programme to put someone off marriage this is it.It is truly painful to watch them at times. I also get driven far beyond frustration at that whole 'get help' attitude. Said screeching-cat-dragon-blooded-mannequin-woman dives headfirst into everything without ever just using her own brain. The moment she finds out her husband has cancer she reads material on it obsessively whilst lying to herself. Then she goes all out convincing her husband to go through a painful treatment process which is unlikely to help and will only serve to make what life he has left horrific. Then she is moaning about him acting up in a group therapy session? She is one of the most annoying characters I have ever encountered on TV and I think the over the top nature of her is only partially intended as such. People being given 'interventions' rather than just being allowed to make their own damn mind up seems like an accepted part of American culture. It's just people who claim to have the best interests of their loved ones in mind whilst in fact all they are saying is 'fit in with our perfect utopian society which we are too blind to see any problems with'.That kind of pseudo-psychiatric nonsense just seems to plague American culture though and I am unclear if it is simply a part of the story or if the writers were intentionally trying to poke fun at how stupid it all is like I am. Frankly I have similar issues with a lot of TV shows though and I can scarcely think of a family drama or sitcom where the wife isn't a total power hungry monster in a dress who wears her husband's testicles like a necklace.Besides that however the programme has some good messages on serious social issues such as drugs, cancer and the horrifically unfair state of American healthcare. This is delivered through a pretty unyielding and hard-hitting plot. Just a shame about the dragons.
Breaking bad is a good show but fails to achieve greatness on multiple levels due to a combination of bad acting, unrealistic writing and lack of grit.Brysan Cranston plays Walter White who is terminally ill high school chemistry teacher who decides to leave his family with a substantial sum of money to support them in the future by cooking meth. There is no denying that Cranston is fine actor but the supporting cast and where the show gets let down the most. The supporting characters do not come across as believable either with their dialogue or actions and sadly their acting is less than desirable. Like so many before it the show strives to show "true" grit but fails like so many American shows, I don't know whether it is the lighting or make up but everything is too shiny and clean and this is a common problem with American shows compared to British shows, which do often capture the rough and crude far better.Breaking bad is good show but nothing special but worth a watch is nothing else is on.


                
This century three serials have perked things up like never before on the "vast wasteland". The Soprano's (begun in 99) , Six Feet Under and Breaking Bad are all filled with suspenseful twists well developed characters and story lines that left you guessing and hungry for more after each episode. Yet all imploded before they crossed the finish line. In the case of Six Feet it was in the last five minutes but in the case of The Soprano's and Breaking Bad hanging around a half season too long when things began to unravel like a bad Christmas sweater as logic and plausibility went on flights of fancy and perhaps greedy producers squeezed the life out of both.Science teacher and part time car wash cashier Walt Williams celebrates his fiftieth birthday by getting a bleak cancer diagnosis. With a wife, child and one on the way his desperation gets the best of him and he hooks up with former wash out student Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul) to produce methamphetamine out of a Winnebago. Walter wants in and out after he makes enough for some solid gold health care that will save his life. But once in he finds it is hard to walk away, especially since he is producing a superior product that gains the attention of a Mexican cartel. He then becomes intoxicated by the power transitioning from mild mannered science teacher to megalomaniac drug trade legend "Heisenberg".Bryan Cranston's transformation is one riveting and absorbing performance as he moves towards the dark side, believable on both ends. As his drug whacked assistant Aaron Paul follows suit while creator Vince Gilligan over the first four and a half seasons keeps a tight grip on storyline by introducing a series of intriguing and comic characters pertinent to the telling, keeping it buoyant and suspenseful with some powerful twists. Of particular note Dean Norris as his narc brother in law from the outset, Bob Odenkirk as shyster lawyer Saul Goodman, Jonathan Banks as aging hit man Mike and especially the subdued menace of major player Gus Fring by one of the most underutilized fine actors in film Gian Carlo Esposito.With a boatload of talent contributing unique and fully fleshed out characterizations and Gilligan connecting dots (unlike Chase in the Soprano's who began to scribble late in the series by going off on hunting expeditions with peripheral characters resulting in gross distractions) Breaking Bad's first four seasons was serial television at its best. Season five started off well but then as it headed towards denouement logic broke down and absurd reasoning took over. It was understandable for Walt with his terminal case of Lord Acton's disease to behave this way but disingenuous for the cooler heads such as the by the book Schrader going semi-solo without back up and the newly minted millionaire desperadoes opting to "live it up" in a fenced in compound in the dessert. Adding insult to injury and with nowhere to go Gilligan has Walt ride to the rescue via sloppy Deus Ex Machina with a multitude of casualties that unfortunately includes the series itself.
Breaking Bad is one of those shows that is probably going to divide viewers. Those with strong views against drug consumption, production and sale will not be happy with this show. That would be, however, missing the point somewhat. Although the main character decides to supplement his income as a high school teacher by producing drugs, this is by all means not an easy journey. The gains are few and far between and the downside of the business, that is the violence and human destruction that come with it, far from glamorise the subject. The series can be extremely disturbing and, at the same time, extremely funny. The humour is usually dark and will therefore not be to everyone's taste but it is very well achieved in the series. This is more obvious in season 1 rather than on season 2, which grew darker and left me feeling uneasy at the end of each episode. This is a very violent show, both in terms of physical violence, with the usual shootings and general gore that are so prominent on a number of recent television series, but also in terms of human suffering and interaction, as is visible in the depiction of drug addicts.The characters are generally solid and have enough depth to surprise the viewer. They are not all lovable; some are in fact rather annoying but this does not mean that they are superfluous. The story is good and keeps moving forward at good pace.As already mentioned, there seems to be a turn to the darker side in season 2. This may tip the balance of the series too much to make it as enjoyable as before, but still makes pretty good viewing.


                
I think america buy some viewers by money .. i watched the whole series and its very very regular and sometimes boring


                
I just finished binging all five seasons of this show. I went into it not knowing much other than what is described on here in its premise. I was familiar with the hype and knew that many have waxed poetic about this series being the best ever.I believe the show's greatest strength is its cast. The producers did a great job casting the roles of Hank, Walter, Jesse, Mike, Gus, and Skyler. I found Saul to be annoying, but I guess that was the point, since he was basically an ambulance chasing lawyer with some super great connections. How he got those connections wasn't clear, and he didn't come across to me as a mob lawyer per se, but maybe that was the point too. Mike and Jesse were my favorite characters on the show. I was surprised that Mike didn't kill Walter after Walter killed Gus. And while I'm happy that Jesse didn't die in the series, I found it unbelievable. I kept expecting him to die at the end of each season (except for season 1)and I definitely thought he was a goner in the final episode with that shoot out. How everyone got hit multiple times and Jesse not even touched was beyond me. I guess it was so that he could get his vengeance on Todd for killing Andrea. Walter was very well portrayed, that actor was riveting at times.What hurts the show most, and the main reason I give it a 7/10, is its pacing. There were very few episodes that didn't drag. That one episode where all they did was try to kill a fly was a total waste of time. Walter's sense of control and perfection were previously and clearly established in cooking meth. If I had been Gus watching him on the cameras, I would have fired him over the loss in cooking time, not to mention the damaging of expensive equipment that occurred. The series had moments of perfection where I was riveted to my TV either through the rising tension, or action that was going on, but there were too many dull moments where I could doze off or not feel bad about getting up to use the bathroom or fix something to eat without pausing the show first. For a show of this subject matter that simply can't happen. I never got invested in it. The series could have ended after Gus died. Gus was the only real threat to Walter. Season 5 didn't have to be made.If you like shows that have plenty of violence and center around an unlikable antihero, then this is the series for you.
The plot line is great... the acting is good... it has all the makings for a great show but for me it was just so dark and depressing I can't call it a favorite.


                
