This show is one of the bright spots of this train wreck of a 2008 television season. Bryan Cranston has to be IMHO one of the best acting talents out there. Just compare and contrast his portrayal of the clueless father on "Malcolm in the Middle". On "Breaking Bad" his character light years different. That's not to say that his roll of Hal on "MITM" was inferior to the character of Walter White here. However he shows his "range" here VS. there. There is going to be the inevitable comparisons to "Weeds" and unfair or not there are parallels. Both center on basically good people forced to make due in order to survive or keep their families solvent--bottom line give "Breaking Bad" a chance I'm betting you will be pleasantly surprised. My only problem with this show is the incessant bleeping of the "colorful language". Either don't include it or don't bleep it, it gets very annoying after two or three bleeps.


                
After hearing about the god-like quality of Breaking Bad for months I decided I would watch it after I received all five seasons as a gift.Seeing all the hype everywhere and seeing it being given the title of "GREATEST TV SHOW OF ALL TIME" over and over again I was eager to begin.Season one is quite a disappointment. Simply put, it does not live up to the hype. One IMDb reviewer put it best by describing the entire first season of Breaking Bad as a pilot season, as opposed to the single typical pilot episode. This view I felt was incredibly accurate. The entire first season doesn't seem to have any real sense of direction, nothing much happens, and I was left feeling that the show was still a baby that hadn't learned how to walk or talk yet. After seven episodes, a show should be clearly defined - this was not. I told people how I felt and they cried "Oh no it gets better I promise you! Keep watching!" And I did...Season two gets better - the plot being more entertaining than the first season - yet I still wasn't loving the show like I felt I should. It just felt so sluggish. Episodes were crammed with dull breakfast scenes and the oh-so-awful scenes with Walter Junior (Flynn?) in them. Again, reporting back to my friends, I was told "Don't stop! You're just getting to the good bit!" So I kept watching...Seasons three and four were, on the whole, better than the first two seasons. But, I felt the show was making some incredibly silly mistakes. The two Mexican twin brothers? REALLY?! Talk about the most stereotypical antagonists ever. I seriously cringed when I saw them. Gus was far superior in every element and did this show some justice.The fifth season is when I began really loving the show. And simply put: that is unacceptable. For a show to only become truly phenomenal in its final season does not warrant the title of "GREATEST TV SHOW EVER". I honestly did find the final season to be captivating, and I finally was eager to watch the next episode after finishing one. But this all came far too late. Countless hours of feeling mediocrely satisfied and nothing more undermined the capacity of this show to be the greatest TV show of all time. But then again - I do firmly believe no show can ever earn that title. "Greatest TV show of ITS time" is perhaps a more appropriate crown, but it most certainly does not sit upon the head of Breaking Bad.A note on the characters: Skyler was fantastic. The transformation she goes through from the first season to the final one is remarkable and she absolutely aided the show in its quality.I did not love Jesse. He was entertaining, sure, but I couldn't appreciate him or love him like some did. His stupid choices made it impossible for me to grow to like him.Hank was an expertly written character. I much preferred the interactions between Hank and Walt to that of Jesse and Walt.I had mixed emotions concerning Walter. I didn't particularly like his character, but - just like Skyler - the transformation Walt undergoes is simply incredible. Comparing him from the first season to the final season he is a totally different person: a changed man.TL;DR - This show is great; excellent, even. But it was not, is not, and never will be the "GREATEST TV SHOW OF ALL TIME". The reason for this is that the show does not actually become great until seasons three and four, and it is only truly enthralling by the final season. One cannot surely hope to christen something with such a title that one has to sit through hours of mediocrity before the greatness finally comes. My friends said it best: "Oh but you can't stop yet! You're just getting to the good bit!". That is entirely the issue: it should ALL be good, and it is not. I shouldn't need to watch two seasons before I finally start enjoying it.Also, the hype and people who christen this show the greatest of all time really do ruin it for people who come into the show expecting perfection, upon which it fails to deliver. The hype ruins this show without a doubt and prevents it from ever being anything more than great. It is absolutely worth watching, but please do not expect it to live up to the hype - it does not. It is the most OVERRATED show of ITS time, not the greatest.*UPDATE* I failed to address one important aspect in my review of Breaking Bad: the acting. The acting is stellar, particularly by Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Dean Norris and Anna Gunn. They all did a terrific job, all of the time. If this review concerned acting alone, I'd give it a 10/10.*UPDATE 2* Upon watching the entire series again, I cannot deny that season 5 is absolutely brilliant. I truly loved it. Also, I can confirm that Walter Junior is the single most hateable character in television history.A new criticism: the show occasionally ventures too far from realism. In season 3, what on earth was with that intro scene where the two twin brothers crawled along the dirt road to a house with candles inside and a sketch of Heisenberg? It was never addressed or explained at all.With the finale episode: I have watched the coffee scene several times and at no point does Walter have the opportunity to give Lydia the Ricin poison. Also, he is shot in the side - by whom? Certainly not his machine gun as the bullets all fired well above his level. These are just a couple of plot holes I spotted upon viewing the second time around.
After watching the first two seasons when they came out, i lost interest after the abysmal first half of season 3. Fast forward to 2014 and i watched the rest of it to the end. Don't get me wrong. it's a good series, but it's not IMHO worth all the "Best series EVER!"-hype. Plot holes and random events are my main gripe(Plane crash and Jesses gasoline spree are just two of them). Then there is that 3rd season, which is good in the last few episodes but the rest of the season kinda sucks(a whole episode about swatting a fly for example). Season 4 and 5 is very good indeed, lots of tension and good drama. The ending i could see miles away, albeit good but very predictable.All in all: 8/10
While I was scrolling through the IMDb reviews I found it that there is a lack of reviews that don't worship Breaking Bad. I felt the urge to share my opinion in saying that it isn't as amazing as the whole buzz around it promises. To be fair I binge watched the five seasons in 3 days (I need a life) so maybe my view of the series is different to that of people who waited the weeks for new episodes to air.The series was really exhausting. The characters turned more evil and their sense of morality degraded as the series continued. This is also a positive point as it shows character development. But the fact that I cared less and less for the characters and therefore for the plot made the series much harder to finish. Only Jesse's breakdown actually got me emotional.It's also really repetitive. Walt, Jesse and Skyler have a fight. Or someone higher on the crime ladder gets into their business. Eventually it gets fixed at the cost of something.It was really slow. And I don't mean the episode with the fly! That episode was good. In general the series progresses very slowly. The conversations are also generally uninteresting and boring even when someone is shouting. You have to be quite patient to get through the episode.But the series is of course not only negatives. It pays close attention to detail and even though it is on the long run quite repetitive, it also has its surprising moments (pizza on the roof anyone?). It isn't as brilliant and perfect as social media shouts but I guess it is one of the better series out there.
The show focuses on Walter White a guy who could afford a much nicer car than the one he drives. He could afford this because he's a successful drug manufacturer. At first he begins this dangerous career to make money to pay for cancer treatment. However somewhere along the way the writers began to lean away from the whole cancer issue. It seems to have disappeared as cases of terminal cancer so often do in reality. Along with the less than desirable vehicle Walt drives is his less than desirable harlot of a wife Skylar. This dried out old box has brought Walter down from one high after another during the course of this unfortunate program. Walt's one friend seems to be a meth addled degenerate wigger named Jesse. In short we have the tale of a guy with way too much money to have such a whore of a wife and a retarded best friend. Bob Odenkirk is awesome in this.


                
A beleaguered teacher who becomes a meth dealer, now there's an idea for a series! At this point, I'm not sure who hasn't seen Breaking Bad. If you haven't, I'll give you quick run-down on why I think it's a great watch.Walt is nothing like me. I'm a 4th grade teacher, he's a high school chemistry teacher. He's unhappy in his married, I'm quite happy. The one thing he has going for him that I identify with is the desire for something better. He wants better healthcare and instead of waiting for the union to come through for him, he takes the situation into his own hands.Through the course of a few episode he becomes a meth maker and small time distributor. The drama follows that as well as the rapidly deterioration of his marriage. His wife is a total bitch. I can't really blame him for wanting to get out f the house. She dreams up ideas that he should do and then forces him into them. You get the fleeting notion from time to time there was once something between them but as for the now, the marriage is on its last leg.Walt partners up with an ex-student Jesse who knows the street smarts of the game. Between the two of them they rake in cash along with mounds of trouble. It seems the more they make, the closer they come to being caught or killed. They have adventures involving local drug rings and you get to see the dark side of all that.In conclusion, this show has a lot of cool action sequences and certainly some well-written drama. Still, it also has a lot of dry episodes where literally nothing happens except that the cactus grows. If you ca hang in there through these episodes, the story is great and enjoyable up until the final episode. I recommend it as an excellent binge watch.
The title sums up my review. Truly, a masterpiece of craftsmanship and proof that television is worth watching. I am (very) late to the game and finally joined Netflix to see what all the hype was about. While the premise didn't exactly appeal to me (female, professional, in my 40s) watching "Breaking Bad" was an eye-opener. Walter White is the ultimate everyman (everywoman)--a mild-mannered, unassertive individual who lacks a sense of opportunism and aggressiveness that has left him--a formerly brilliant scientific researcher who contributed to Nobel-quality research--with a mediocre job teaching at a public high school with barely enough money to pay the bills and to support his pregnant wife, disabled son, and soon-to-be-born daughter. He is also diagnosed with terminal cancer on top of that. Although he turns to manufacturing meth out of desperation, he slowly metamorphoses into a ruthless drug kingpin. It's the kind of life ordinary people fantasize about but don't have the conjones or brains to do. This series is a rollicking good time and I expect my life to be put on hold for about another month or two until I finish watching.Having a master's in a scientific discipline makes me also more hyperaware than your average film/TV show critic about scientific accuracy. I don't like it when a drama or film plays on the public's ignorance and Breaking is also somewhat guilt of this and I deducted a star for this. While fiction is permitted creative license (the Star Wars Death Star), a drama about making crystal meth and playing around with chemistry is not. Hydrofluoric acid cannot eat through a bathtub and thick wood floors or turn a human body into goo (try sulfuric acid, which is what they should have used). Fulminated mercury is extremely volatile and explosive (good job presenting this). A seasoned high-level drug distributor with an army of vicious thugs cannot be overwhelmed easily by a Jesse Pinkman; a Tuco in real life knows that someone can grab the gun he's stuck into the back of his pants and shoot him with it. This is police training 101. It is highly improbably that Jesse could have overtaken Tuco like that in the scene in Mexico.For some reason Walt's character becomes a little bipolar in season 5. By season 5 he has become a malignant narcissist who believes in killing anyone who gets in his way. A few episodes later after he decides to quit making meth he starts acting more like the old, mild-mannered Walter White, at one point even telling Skylar to keep the money for herself and the kids after he dies of cancer. I'm no expert on human psychology but wasn't he a scary, menacing man a few episodes earlier who was completely oblivious to the feelings and needs of others and suddenly he is Mr. Rogers again? I think the writers need to read some more Freud or Dostoyevsky, yo.
This is no strange when you find this out at the top five of the highest rated TV series of IMDb. If you go through the whole seasons of Breaking Bad, you'll definitely discover the reasons why people likes this show so much! I'm also not an exception. I was amazed by this excellent show. Though the first two seasons seemed a little bit boring to me, but from the third season I was obsessed with Breaking Bad completely! And now I'm pretty sure, Breaking Bad is so far one of the best thriller series in the television industry.


                
When I rate films or shows on IMDb I rate them on what I think they should be.My sister got my entire family into Breaking Bad and now I'm hooked on it and I'm only 13!! I have to admit I thought this was highly over rated when I watched the first 2 or 3 episodes, but it takes time for you to get into the characters, and after I did that it was absolutely brilliant!!! I am at the end of S4 and I am extremely enjoying it. Walt/Bryan Cranston plays a PHD Chemistry teacher at a high school and teams up with former student Jesse/Aaron Paul and start to cook meth for his family to get money as he has terminal lung cancer. And that is all I can tell you to be honest!!Breaking Bad=9/10


                
After quite a few avid suggestions I finally got myself to watch all 5 seasons of Breaking Bad. My opinion of the show was not always consistent through out. Initially I found the first season a bit difficult to get into and did not completely reach up to the hype that had been generated by everyone that suggested it to me. However, once I continued watching and reached season 3, I was hooked in ways that I have not been before. I found the character development to be extremely different than most of the other shows I have watched. Yes, I did find the plot and action thrilling, but the way in which the characters constantly battled the seduction of the darkness within them was most interesting. I am always used to finding some level of sympathy for characters, always looking for a rationalization to their actions good or bad. In the instance of Dexter, I began to accept who he was and his constant battle with himself and trying to find as balanced a morality as he could, allowed me to accept him. In the case of Walter White, after season 3 when he showed no sign of remorse for the child that had been murdered on the bike I was no longer able to find any justification for his actions. I was no longer able to sympathize with him, instead found him undeserving of any redemption or love for that matter. Being sucked into his own evil to that extent, and being at peace with it even at the last moment is no quality we look for in a hero. Although, as a viewer I was unable to love his character like a lot of other main characters, his story is one that will stand out. His character demonstrates the level at which circumstances can cause you to make a wrong choice. Initially, this choice was justifiable to a certain extent, but after a point it wasn't just about creating a better world for his family, it resulted in the surfacing of his inner evil and greed for power. Jesse on the other hand, was a character I could sympathize with. His constant struggle to right his wrong reflected some level of morality. There were some wrongs that were not justifiable and he was capable of acknowledging that unlike Walter, who would go to any limits to get what he wanted. Overall, Breaking Bad is definitely a show worth watching. It maintains a high degree of reality, keeps you on your edge with great acting; all of which are worthy of appreciation.
Breaking Bad: A Dissection to Walter White's character Factual Summary Genre: TV Series Title: Breaking Bad, 2008-2013 IMDb Rating: 9.5 / 10 Creator: Vince Gilligan Review centered upon protagonist Walter White (played by Bryan Cranston) Reviewer: Adhikary Rabindra / 2016 November Dissecting Walter White's Character as Mr. White and Hiesenberg From the start to the finish, Walter White has been central among the characters depicted in the series "Breaking Bad". It takes little—if any—time to get the insinuation that the series must be portraying the stories based somewhere around complicated scientific deductions or chemical formulas when one sees the banner popping out with Mendeleev's Periodic Table mottled in acoustic aura of mystic music. This must have been a perfect motion picture as a tool that Vince Gilligan has devised to show Jekyll and Hyde character of Walter White, an ordinary high school teacher, who later faces the specter of average income family at least one member of which suffers from a fatal disease (stage III lung cancer when diagnosed)—such that the family has to pay the unaffordable merely to expect alleged longevity, coerce-fully—only to become extraordinary, not to mention the psychological turmoil of everyone involved. As the plot unravels, it is fairly interesting to see how a boring family old-man—that Walter White, of course—turns to a underworld meth chef, a new normal to his cruel and darker side of behavior intermittently alternating to a kind family guy; indeed a caring husband and responsible father to a boy and a baby girl in the course. The weighted yet intriguing relationship of Mr. White, as is addressed by cooking clans of his, with different individuals, which again varying according to the place, context and the surround, adds more spices to the viewers how one's dual personality complicates the social situations. The first time when Mr. White enters into Tuco's rendezvous is when he pronounces his netherworld name "Hiesenberg", being an aspirant chemist and all, coined after Heisenberg's principle, perhaps. The name is then first heard, and echoed, loud and clear inside the meth industries reverberating in the sinusoidal manner to the cartel world, zeroing to customers and blazing to DEA—soon as Heisenberg bombards the Tuco's place with his mystique chemicals masquerading blue methamphetamine crystals, and threatens to reimburse the money of previous 'debacle' trade on top of Jesse Pinkman's—his coworker, injuries, and succeeds. Thus is how Heisenberg establishes his imagery, rather Kafkaesque nightmare for a man like him, unbelievable to whoever have known him, not only near but far and beyond as well. The Jekyll Walter White might be a perfect husband, father and a family friend whereas Hyde Walter White is equally brutal, emotionless individual, who is, at places, called animal even by his meth-cook colleague Jesse Pinkman with whom Mr White shares almost all his business interests. His notoriety could not have reached any farther than poisoning an innocent child with his insidious chemical weapon called ricin to having explicit role in the suicide of trusty business partner Mike Ehrmantraut. Whether his unaffordability to cancer treatment or lung cancer alone knowing that he is surely going to die has caused him to turn into Mr. Tough-Guy-wanted-by-police seems baffling. Or, maybe, he is born that way, only that character precipitates soon after lung carcinoma transcends to his life. He is near perfect in excellently pulling up the rationale for every wrongdoing he commits, sometimes even is busted out for over-reaction—of verbally fabricating unusually intricate details of what happened, how and where. He is best at what he does, as he keeps claiming that—96% and blue color should validate his claim, however; in whole of America, and that's where he reasons that meth-cooking is justifiable at his end rather than to work out a lousy sub-standard product by some lethargic naïve cook, a wastage of precursors, lesser selling price and then lesser benefits at the same time depriving the customers of pure crystal inhalation experience. The later portion includes more of Heisenberg than Walter White, when he gradually and irreversibly implicates himself to a murderer—or so a serial killer even. He is now not only a mere cook, he is the king of Meth Empire after he bombs Gustavo Fring to death or at least that is what he thinks. He keeps on destroying everyone and everyone else in his journey to become millionaire and to escape law enforcement, DEA so to tell, not to mention the destroyed lives of ultimate users of 'blue thing' he manufactures. Day by day he becomes grave criminal in the name of 'providing' for his family, more and more he is pushed further away from uxorial intimacy and family love. Even if he seems to lose trust from Skyler, his wife, he keeps running for money only to save it for her and their children after he will be gone owing to the carcinoma. This has rather happy ending when independently scrutinizing all the felonies that Mr. White has committed. To me, he should have succumbed to more cruel death than is shown, and only in that way the viewers would find more justice in viewing all the way bottom from the start. As a whole the serial is a family drama with interesting mix of crime and violence affecting social virtues of a man and his family garnished with bright colors of joy, love, care, sacrifice and darker shades of victimization, realization and compunction. It also brings about the unpleasant aspect of illegal money, its cohesive and indispensable chain of bummers to the society.


                
I had heard a lot about this series, but somehow I found neither time nor ardor for watching it - several seasons, unknown actors to me, ambivalent topic... But recently, thanks to digital media opportunities, I took and watched all seasons in a succession - and I am glad I did so, as abstracts and flashbacks are not of much help if you have missed something, the contents is often sophisticated and versatile.Season 1 was ambiguous to me, mostly due to the drug issue and the fact that Bryan Cranston reminded me strongly of Cary Oldman whom I like a lot, but then I found me chuckling in many scenes and I realized that I was watching a good black comedy (well, in later seasons, the number of those moments decreased), I got used to the actors and started to like them (particularly Cranston, RJ Mitte, Giancarlo Esposito), paid attention to skillful cinematography, musical background, crazy composition of events and scenes... Moreover, I noticed that the so-called good guys behaved often in an unpleasant manner, and I tend to forget that running drug business in nasty and lethal. I also obtained additional chemistry knowledge but I can promise I will never use it for criminal purposes :) All in all, it is a very good series, although not on my very top where 24, Sherlock Holmes and several Scandinavian crime series (e.g. Bron/Broen) are placed. Or perhaps I have not used to the creations were de facto criminals are more pleasant and elaborated than decent citizens; but I might change my views as I have begun to watch Dexter...


                
This is considered as one of the greatest television shows of history. Critics and fans alike love this show.Me personally was blown away by it.It is created by one of the "X-Files" creators, so there is no surprise.But this is one of the most uniquely dark television drama on a man's journey to perdition and we see it's inception.We see madness, internal struggle, violence and drugs.This reminds of Tarantino, Rodriguez, Ritchie and Joe Carnahan. A dark comic take on violence.Bryan Cranston as Walter White is amazing. One of the best television experiences so far.Overall - 4/5


                
After countless months of everyone talking about breaking bad, and hearing so much about the show, I decided I just had to give in and check it out.I'm currently almost finished season 3, and to be honest, I don't think I can take much more of it. I mean I'm 3 seasons in and that "WOW, did that just happen?!" moment hasn't happened yet, and to be honest I don't think it will.It's over-hyped for sure - I mean for this to get a 9.5 on IMDb, I think a few people were smoking some of that blue meth, because I just don't see it.It gets very boring at times, and there's no real character development. Most of the central characters aren't very likable. The whole story just doesn't make sense - and every move the characters make, I can't help but wondering why? because it just doesn't seem like something they'd do.Don't get me wrong, it's not a horrible programme. Despite the flaws, it's a decent watch, but I just can't get hooked on it. Will I continue to watch it? I don't know. But it's not a 9.5 programme. Metacritc gave it a 70 which is probably about right. I guess it appeals to airheads, and gives meth-heads a voice. 6.8/10


                
Whoever wants everything, will lose everything and leave.
... just give the man some cancer bro! Jokes aside, this series is a really great show. It's a great cat and mouse spiel between WW and the FBI uncle. While some villains are a bit over-acted and stereotypical, they do play an integral part in forcing Walter White to evolve into the badass he is towards the end of the series. And one is quite torn between sympathizing with the protagonist and hating him for his lack of humanity. But it's not necessary to 100% like a protagonist for a show to be good. After all, character development is what makes a show interesting and BB clearly is a great example in this regard.
The camera and the plot are done very professionally and most actors deliver a great performance.Pro Tip: Skip the Skyler episodes. If you're not into family drama, they can be rather boring.


                
Loved this show! Well-timed dark humour and very disturbing turns. Unexpected violence. The bad guys probably were a bit over acted at times but for the most part, an awesome series!


                
Perfect? Nah, but what ever is? Nothing. Nothing stands up to constant scrutiny, but this show was and still is quite an exhilarating journey in character development. This should have closed the book on pop culture's infatuation with exploring toxic masculinity and moral ambiguity-at based on these specific demographics, but yeah, TV AND Hollywood runs on reboots and regurgitation. Do I subscribe to all of the shows' theses about morality? I dunno. It's too incredibly well acted and engaging for those issues to take me out of the universe they've created, and it's a place you can revisit time and time again. Very, very few shows have ever pulled this off, so, kudos.


                
The episodes get more and more interesting. Bryan Cranston plays Walt, a high school Chemistry teacher that starts manufacturing crystal meth. He needs the money for his family, because he is dying of cancer. Complications arise with production. Complications arise with distribution. Complications arise with collecting. Complications just arise.It is a lesson in starting, running and failing at business. Things get better; things get worse. Walt is a regular Jeckyl and Mr Hyde. He tries to portray himself as a person of quiet demeanor but quickly turns into a monster (without taking drugs) turning rabid on his slacky partner.Family involvement is a distraction except for his brother-in-law being with the DEA. It is similar to "Weeds" but not as good.
I rated this 8/10 because i genuinely think it could of been better.I liked it and kept watching it and it was a good series BUT in my personal opinion the ending could of been better..We don't find out if Gretchen and Elliot ever give Walt Jr the money, we don't know what happens to Jesse after he drives off and I think Walt could of died in a better way too. There was just something missing from the ending that i cant quite put my finger on.I enjoyed watching the series and will probably watch it again in the future but it is slightly over rated. It needed more action i think, season 4 was my favourite with the story line with Gus and Hank.Maybe a 1 hour extra episode just to wrap everything up in a nice tidy bow would be good.Its worth watching though still. 8/10 from me.
AMC's Breaking Bad is a terrific show, that has won an unprecedented number of awards, but it's one that is extremely difficult to get into. The show is centered on High School chemistry teacher, Walter White (Bryan Cranston), who discovers he's dying from cancer. Determined not to leave his family with nothing, White teams up with his former student and local drug dealer, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul) in an attempt to process and sell crystal meth. Producing the drug isn't the hard part, it's distributing it while staying out of trouble. That's easier said than done, especially when your wife is on your case 24/7, and your brother in-law is a DEA agent.This show is terrific and worth every second I've spent watching it, but I almost missed out. The pilot episode was not a strong one, in fact, many fans of the show have called it the worst episode of the entire series. If you can make it passed that, the first season isn't much better. The first season is extremely dark and depressing, focusing mainly on Walt's illness and the effect it has on his family. It really wasn't easy to watch, especially if you've like me, and have had family go through the same thing.The good news is that after the depressing 7 episode first season, the show gets much much better. The network or the producers had to have to seen the same thing that everyone saw and the attention of future episodes is centered around Walt and Jesse's growing business and the problems they have, including nosy family members, the DEA, seedy people looking for a taste, and of course rival dealers and gangs. The show really picks up in the second season and starts to evolve into the award winning crime drama it has become.Bryan Cranston plays Walt and how good is he? He has won 3 Emmy's, and has been nominated every season the show has been on. The man he plays is so complicated that you really needed the very best actor you could find to play him. Walt White is a mess of emotions, concealed within a strong persona, it's this concealment that also helps to keep his conscience at bay, most of the time.Jesse Pinkman is played by Aaron Paul who is also very good. Paul himself has been nominated for four Emmy's, winning twice, and will now and forever be required to call people bitch. Paul is a very good actor and does a great job playing a character who I find to be extremely annoying. Jesse is always managing to !@#$ things up, he's always putting them at risk by saying stupid things and doing stupid things. To be honest with you, I don't care much for the character, but the fact that the character, as opposed to the actor, annoys me, shows how strong his performances is.Walt's family is also a main stay in the show, his wife Skyler (Anna Gunn), is as strong a housewife as I have ever seen. There is nothing Skyler White won't say and she is often Walt's morale compass, albeit one that is remarkably nosy and unappreciative. His son is played by newcomer R.J. Mitte whose handicapped angle is actually real. Mitte was born with cerebral palsy, which effects his speech and movements. He admits that he over-dramatizes the effects for the show, but he is still handicapped in real life and one hell of an inspirational person. Through it all he has never let anyone tell him he can't do anything and he has been open and upfront about his condition to anyone who has asked him about it. He's really an inspiration kid, who took a handicapped and used it to his advantage.Finally, Walt's brother-in-law, DEA Agent, Hank Schrader (Dean Norris), brings much needed comic relief to a show that can be hard to watch sometimes. Besides being a great cop, Schrader has a personality that is larger than life. Even in the context of a show, where the cops are the bad guys, you find yourself drawn to Schrader and rooting him on.Breaking Bad has won a total of 7 Emmy Awards and is one of the highest rated shows in cable history. The show most defiantly fits into the category of addictive television, but unlike it's neighboring show, The Walking Dead. The acting is as believable as it gets and the story just gets better and better every season. If you can make it through the slow and depressing first season, you will find an unbelievable show that may very well be one of the best that cable has ever seen.


                
well, I am new to American TV serials. Watching this was tough as the sequences shot are really long and the story moves at a slower pace, but as the serial approaches the final season it just compensates everything... the ending was just fabulous... watch it for its ending, it deserves that...Every episode starts with a prologue, which actually obliges you to think, and as the story towards the end, they drop a clue for the upcoming serial which again makes you say, DAMN IT, LET ME HIT THE NEXT ONE NOW...The way they have blended the chemistry aesthetics in the whole plot is really adorable, which is easily understood.Overall, if u like suspense and those swanky tricks and turns in the story, then this one is for you. But... you've gotta wait for it... ;)


                
this is a well made series so far there are only 4 series and do not know if there will be any morewell watching this series was great did not expect it , it got a low viewing rate because i think it was not as commercial as other but its one of them when you watch it , you want to see it till the end Bryan Cranston is the main character who is the dad in MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE , and he was the best thing about MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE and he is a true actor in this series and is very entertaining to watch , this series has a great ending the way its been shot with the camera is nice and there is some cg work as well that looks good i would like to say much more about this series as there is a lot to say but its best to see it for your self , what can i say but its well put together in my opinion


                
I knew I wanted to wait till the series finale had aired to write a review about Breaking Bad because I kept holding out to see if the show would surpass its potential like I thought it could. It never quite made it past it's potential, though parts of seasons 2,4 and 5 definitely dabbled in that territory. This is not to say that just living up to the potential isn't a bad thing. Breaking Bad was often a great show and a great story to follow along with. It also boasted two incredible performances from Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul throughout. The evolution of the series and of those two characters is something special to watch. The show never quite reaches that next level for one gaping reason, and it's partly because of it's two leads... the shows supporting characters are for the most part boring and irrelevant. When I think of some of the best dramas ever (Justified, Lost, Fringe, Damages, The Wire) the big thing that they possess that Breaking Bad doesn't are relevant characters. It's a lot easier to take your story in lot's of different directions and have relevant sup-plots when they involve characters that grab your attention. Breaking Bad struggled to have that throughout, with key supporting characters Hank, Walt Jr.,Marie, or Skyler (ohhhhh Skyler :S ) providing the spark for any good sub-plots. One great supporting character is Saul, but mainly for his comic relief. Most of Breaking Bad's supporting character's are ones with only a season or two story arc like Gus, Mike, Jane and the Salamanca's. Though the show doesn't quite get to the heights that some of other great dramas, it's still thoroughly entertaining from the opening episode to the satisfying series finale.


                
Well the whole thing was very spectacular, the minute details were taken care of. The ending and everything is realistic of what should have happened in real life consequences. The Story revolves around The Crystal Meth and about how a Nobel Prize Winner wasn't given much appreciation later in his life, probably it was his choices. It has always been his choices about everything he did and he really liked it, we can see him singing while enjoying his glorious crimes and concentrating on something which is illegal, his love for his ninety-nine percent blue baby is fascinating, it comes down to crime and Murders and how the things that mattered the most in life were turned up against him, the sudden realization of losing all that he cared for was tempting and making him clear that it was his love for chemistry that didn't changed and so the two years he lived in his tactical Benevolence was way better than his fifty years of Mundane surviving.


                
