Season 1 : 8.8/10
Season 2 : 8.8/10
Season 3 : 9.5/10
Season 4 : 9.8/10
Season 5 : 10/10


                
The age of Bryan Cranston has returned. Once universally lauded for his work in Malcolm In The Middle, there had yet to be a good vehicle for this man's particular talents. He has that rare gift of generating sympathy and manic-energy at the same time.For those that would be content to label this show a Weeds knock-off, bear in mind that Breaking Bad is a new kind of monster. It touches on the very same themes, "living realistically as a middle class in the United States" which often makes us resort to extremes to survive. Like the mother and daughter team that robbed that bank. But the weed selling antics of Showtime's hit show is really nothing like "Bad." The Pilot was about as perfect a Pilot as I've ever seen, and much of it rests on Bryan Cranston's shoulders.Cranston plays Cheimstry teacher Walter White. He has a loving wife, a child with Cerebal Palsy and another is on the way. He also happens to be dying from an inoperable lung cancer situation, which happened although he "never smoked." His finances in disarray, the once great student of science turns to crime to solve his problems.He cooks Crystal Meth with a good for nothing ex-student. From the antics of the first episode, the show is leading towards a dark place, but a place of truth. This is a no nonsense black comedy.For people that love Tarantino or the Coen's, this might be your cup of tea.


                
As the clueless, hapless and hopeless father of four on the celebrated series MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE, Bryan Cranston came into his own, as he did an amazing balancing act that juggled slapstick, pathos and insanity all at once, proving that not only did "father NOT know best", but more than likely never would.Now he essays the role of another father in the new series BREAKING BAD, but it's a shocking, bracingly refreshing turn that takes his 'Three Stooges' repertoire of grunts, shrieks, barks and neurotic ticks and virtually throws them out the window. Some of those qualities are still there, but unlike MALCOLM, BREAKING is the blackest of black comedies. When I first heard about it, the reviews I read compared it heavily (and favorably) to the Coen Brothers' dark crime comedy FARGO. And the comparisons are aptly warranted.This is one of those series where the less you know about it going in, the better, but just to set your mind reeling with the possibilities, here it is in a nutshell: Cranston plays high school chemistry teacher Walter White, who is constantly battling the lackadaisical attitudes of his disinterested students, the looming specter of financial disaster - by supplementing his paltry teacher's salary with a second job at a local car wash, and trying to cope with the impending arrival of a new baby, even as he and his wife raise their disabled teenage son, whom unlike many stereotypical portrayals of handicapped kids is no Pollyanna-like angel. Then in the midst of all this, Walter makes a shocking discovery: he has inoperable lung cancer, and therefore only a few years left to live at best. Facing the very real possibility of leaving his family struggling not only with his death, but a financial situation that could only end in catastrophe, Walter suddenly has a revelation, thanks to an idea handed to him by his boorish brother-in-law, who works with the DEA - he decides to become a crystal meth dealer. Okay, so while you're letting your brain take that all in, you also need to know that this is one of those defining roles where you just know that the lead actor will get Emmy recognition, whether he intended to or not. That is just how good Cranston is as Walter. In fact, he's every bit as good as Michael C. Hall's Dexter Morgan, James Gandolfini's Tony Soprano or Harold Perrineau's criminally under-appreciated Augustus Hill. And he's backed by an amazing supporting cast of mostly new or unfamiliar faces (with the exception of Dean Norris as the brother-in-law).You can tell from the word 'go' that writer/producer/director Vince Gilligan (former head writer/exec producer on THE X FILES) has been champing at the bit for a while to let fly with a project like this. And if the first episode is any indication, AMC has another real winner on its hands. So MAD MEN will need to move over and make some room...since BREAKING BAD isn't the kind of series to "ask nicely."Which brings up another important point: this is not a series for everyone, the way that FARGO and Showtime's kindred-spirit drug dramedy WEEDS are not mainstream, either. This is sharp, biting, satirical social commentary that draws blood when it sinks its teeth in, and you are guaranteed to wince even as you laugh out loud at Cranston's dead-on portrayal of a MAN on the edge of a nervous breakdown (well, more like over the edge.)A caveat for would-be viewers, though, and a very ironic one at that: AMC has applied its ham-fisted method of editing its movies to this series as well, unfortunately, making the channel the LAST place you want to see it. The best thing to do is to check out the premiere episode whenever you can catch a rerun on AMC, then hustle on over to iTunes and download it so you can watch it again. Some very important scenes and some impressive establishing shots have been "edited for time and content" from the broadcast version, and this is material that IS essential to your experience viewing this show. There is a lot more to the characters and situations than you will be allowed to see on basic cable. So as you watch, keep that in mind.And after you are done marveling at this magnificent character study sketched in desperation, you can wonder as I did, whether Bryan Cranston will bother preparing a speech for next year's Emmys. I sure hope he does...thanks to his work on BREAKING BAD, he'll need it.


                
What an awesome change of pace for Bryan Cranston, who is best known for playing the goofy dimwitted Homer Simpson like dad from Malcom In The Middle(2000-2006). But this character is not goofy or dimwitted. Walter White is your everyday man, who is a high school chemistry teacher, and has a loving wife and handicapped son. On the verge of his 50th birthday party. He begins having a mid life crisis, to make matters worse, he is diagnosed with terminal cancer. But not wanting to leave his family with nothing, in a quick way to make a lot of money. He teams up with a former student named Pinkmam(Aaron Paul) who is now a drug dealer, to make the drug called Crystal Meth. You don't like what Walter is doing, but at the same time you try to understand why he is doing it. I like watching the transformation he is going through, like Mr.Chips turning into Michael Douglas from Falling Down(1993). This series is quite enjoyable, it's a good dramatic series, with some humor moments. Cranstons performance in the show is memorable, and at times heartbreaken to watch. And he and Aaron Paul play off each other so well. I hope it will last a little while.


                
First season took off a little slow. It settled up premise, characters, the mood of the show, its world, if you will. It has some great moments though, like body disposal scene from the second episode which made me choke on my own laughing tears. Second season blew me away. Completely. Right from the very beginning. Second episode Grilled along with sixth episode Peekaboo,being so damn hilarious, bizarre and gripping, I'm sure, will fill find their places in the TV's Hall of Fame, trust me. What third season will bring, has yet to be determined.The show has quality to surprise. At first I was a bit skeptical toward it: A school teacher turns to be a drug dealer? Yea' I've heard something similar is already on TV, and I wasn't excited. So if creator of the show appeared to be someone else than Vince Gilligan (who made earlier in his career significant contribution to development of another great show "The X-Files") and if the show was on channel different than AMC or HBO, I even doubt I'd give it a chance. By the way, the pilot was shot with intention to be sold directly to HBO, that's why it later was edited for nudity and explicit language by AMC, which still is a cable channel, but apparently trying to remain more "family friendly.""Breaking Bad" could be ridiculously funny and hellishly creepy, it contains some rough images and topics, not to mention that it's filmed astoundingly, unbelievably beautiful. Juxtaposition of plots, characters, places, even colors and sounds provides unique installments which had me on the edge of my seat, shaking with laughters and shivering with excitement and aesthetic delight.Show's overdramatization brings us to the part which I praise the most: Style. It's kind of style that first puts before our eyes some quite clichéd soap-like picture: Common middle-America family consisting of middle-aged Chemistry high school teacher, his pregnant wife, and their cerebral-palsy-inflicted teenaged son. Then chain of circumstances invokes some highly absurd and eerie, often impossibly funny, unbearably scary and hopelessly sad situations. It's the kind of style you may find in 50's noir films, in pictures of French nouvelle vague, in characters of movies by Quentin Tarantino, the Cohen brothers and Robert Rodriguez. In spite of the vortex of intense and dangerous situations the show manages to carry throughout all its episodes some unexplainable vibe of incredible, Buddhism-like calmness. As if we were told some sort of ancient myth or fable. Of course it has a lot to do with sophisticated work of cinematographers and subtle inputs of art designers. Although I usually prefer dark, foggy, shadowy – could be said depressing – cinematographic atmosphere ("Twin Peaks," "the X-Files," Millennium," "the Sopranos"), I found myself amazed by crystal clear images of "Breaking Bad." Insignificant and empty on the surface, yet filled with dimness and despair; New Mexican sun that doesn't burn you, it gives chills and almost numbs you in the end.I'm not going to say anything about lead actor Bryan Cranston. His character doesn't speak that much either, it's all written on his face. Aaron Paul's character, on the other hand, has some mouth on him, but don't let him disencourage yourself, yo biach. Their intentions are good, in different ways. But you know the road to hell is paved with what, aren't you?All of the above combines in highly unorthodox, exceedingly entertaining and fairly thought-provoking top-notch TV-show third season of which premièred March 21st on AMC or wherever you may or willing to get it.


                
Bryan Cranston really came into his own on the set of Malcolm in the Middle. He got all the nervous twitches, the neurotic spasms, and all the growls of a middle class dad making his way through four boys. Now, however, in this show; Breaking Bad, he throws that all away for subtly. I mean, what else do you do after you've found out that... well. Bryan Cranston is spot on as a middle class guy(yet again) who desperately wants to help his son, wife, and unborn child out financially. So, he devises a plan that only a man in his situation can, and being a chemistry teacher needs no introduction into the how.Very well acted show, very well picked cast, and was I the only one surprised at the method of 'removal' for the rival drug dealers? Seriously that came out of left field. But, hey, it works, and makes sense.All in all, recommended show. Bryan Cranston really brings this cast together with his sense of hopelessness.
Vince Gilligan shows how big a piece of "The X-Files" and "The Lone Gunmen" was his with "Breaking Bad" - quite a large chunk, as it turns out. He has a rare gift for getting the best performances from his players, and in "Breaking Bad" he and Bryan Cranston chop some serious wood.I've been following the series for four weeks now, and my wife and I just watched the most recent installment of the series ("Grey Matter") together - the first time she's seen the series at all. And her reaction was not entirely unexpected.It's like chocolate - some folks like their chocolate light, some of us like it bitter-dark. I happen to be one of those serotonin junkies who like chocolate dark enough that there are special numbers to measure how dark it is.And "Breaking Bad" is Special Dark Comedy. I don't think it's writing a spoiler to repeat what the network discloses in their own television commercials, so I'll explain what I mean by that. Bryan Cranston, better known before this series as the hopeless bungler of a dad in "Malcolm in the Middle," totally convinces as a high-school chemistry teacher (in a job way below his intellectual gifts - he's a serious, research-quality chemist) who must cope with a second job at a car wash under a bastard of a boss who treats him like a serf, a controlling wife, a son who he loves desperately who has a middling-severe case of cerebral palsy... and lung cancer that has already spread throughout his body, thus a very short life span.As you might expect, this is a man with a lot of anger, and given his situation you can't blame him. He also has a bastard HMO who won't pay for the therapy that might save his life (I mean, gee, that would actually "maintain health," and you can't expect that of a "health maintenance organization," at least in my own experience of dealing with cancer and an HMO at the same time).Another cross this man must bear is a gruff, well-meaning bear of a brother-in-law who is a DEA agent, and takes the protagonist on a "ride along" as he directs the take down of a meth lab. Our terribly ill chemist sees the lab, knows the chemistry involved (if bikers and gang bangers can make it, how difficult could the synthesis be for a REAL chemist?)... and he sees the sort of money it would take to buy a house in a decent neighborhood for cash lying around and learns that this is nothing exceptional in the world of play-for-pay amateur amphetamine cookery.At this point the protagonist decides not to accept his fate meekly, not to let his wife and son exist in poverty after he dies slowly and expensively... and takes the step which Milton and Shakespeare and Goethe all have THEIR protagonists make - away from acceptance, toward stepping out of his assigned role as humble victim. And thereby hangs a great tale.To do them credit, the series creator Gilligan and his associates decide not to sugarcoat the choices and consequences involved in the protagonist's decision to step out of the path leading to the poorhouse for his family. Nor do they confer sainthood or omniscience on the central character of the story. He screws up by the numbers, not least by who he decides to choose as his partner in his new career as methamphetamine cook (a choice which lends a number of seriocomic twists to the story).The series is, by turns, absurd, tragic, touching, howlingly funny, bitterly sad... it fulfills Robert Heinlein's definition of art - "inflicting pity and terror on its audience." More you cannot ask. Watch it if you like your comedy very, very dark.
If Breaking Bad was the first TV series to ever exist, something incredible certainly would have made history. If it were to be the last show to ever run, that would make it a perfectly historical culmination. However, as it arrived eight years into the 21st Century, it ranks as a game changer for television eternally.None of the films and any other TV show I've seen in my lifetime have impressed me as much as this. It's impossible to describe this series in one word but it deserves to be described with every single positive one ever created on this planet.It's pretty staggering how much creator Vince Gillian and his crew beat the odds to tell a story about a man who rises to crime by cooking drugs after his cancer diagnosis. The way Walter White changes from a family guy to a money-obsessed drug lord is incredible. Okay, its subject matter obviously isn't for the faint of heart but whether you're into that or not, you'll be hooked to this thing like what that disgusting drug does to people.It's not just a crime show, its more than just that. In fact there's so much to obsess over: the character development and dialogue are professionally thought-out and never cheat, the cinematography is experimental, the direction is strong and the locations are beautifully staged. The writing is by far the selling point of the series. The team of ten writers (including Gilligan) know how to keep the story moving from one moment to the next with unstoppable energy while absorbing unique ideas that never feel or become stale and derivative. They also understand how to capture the horrific transformation of a normal human turning evil unhurriedly. Kudos to the directors for translating them onto screen, which is just as impressive due to the fact that their work is so seamless that the audience can become completely unaware of it. Notable directors Rian Johnson (Star Wars: Episode VIII) and David Slade (The Twilight Saga: Eclipse) helm a few episodes which adds as a bonus to the series' success.The storytelling is of the highest order. It's clear Gillian isn't a by-the-numbers storyteller, he cares about characterisation and slow introduction for the colourful and dark world he's created. From the first episode to the very last, nearly every frame roots for the beauty of character-driven narrative as well as artistic cinematography that vaguely shows the beautiful locations in the background. We care for these characters, we follow them, we relate to them in some way. To be truthful, they feel realistic throughout the entire series. If only films adapted this element better.Bryan Cranston is mind-blowing as Walter White. Anchored by the writing, he sets the character up perfectly as he gets sucked into the criminal underworld. His attitude towards everyday life slowly begins to change throughout the series, and it's played beautifully. Aaron Paul is awesome as Jesse Pinkman, portraying an uneven post-student drug addict in all the best ways. He's funny, argumentative but you also oddly enough care for him in many parts of the show. Dean Norris is top-notch as DEA brother-in-law Hank. He plays a little with comedic attitude throughout the first couple of seasons but that slowly fades away as the story gets darker. Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte are spectacular at wife Skyler and son Walter, Jr. They have the characteristics to support a normal family before all hell breaks loose. If they're any flaws, there is perhaps only one. While the cinematography is stylistic, the first half of the series is viewed from a hand-held perspective, making the experience sometimes slightly frustrating but luckily later on it turns to the camera placement that I can handle. Without giving anything away, the finale is anything but average which is a low for the show. It doesn't have the same richness that the pilot had, but hey, you can't have everything.A TV series can go on for years or maybe decades, but what this did so damn well was that it finished exactly when it needed to. In an age where shows are dragged until completely decreased quality, this is a triumph. Gilligan chose wisely.Crime does not pay but Breaking Bad certainly pays the price, thanks to the indescribable and unthinkable effort of the entire production anchored by a true discovery in television: Vince Gilligan. I doubt we'll see anything like this again.


                
Hard to believe that the high IQ man who was careful enough to dispose off a random potted , Lily of the valley , from his enclosed backyard ( a place never visited by Jesse Pinkman ) wouldn't destroy his copy of ' Leaves of Grass ' by Walt Whitman , complete with a handwritten tribute by the late lamented Gale Boetticher ( identifying him as the other ' W.W. ' ) .But this same scrupulously , meticulous man , not only retained that particular book ( plus the inked inscription ) , but also paraded it on his toilet ( in the same house visited regularly by the tenacious Hank Schraeder )Perhaps he was inflicted by an episode of somnambulism , when Hank discussed the killing of Gale Boetticher with him or when Hank speculated about who ' W.W.' was or Gale's interest in Walt Whitman's poetry ...Or he just had amnesia & missed out that Agent Schraeder was obsessed with the hunt for ' Heisenberg ' ... an unfortunate side effect of his recent chemotherapy , perhaps ?Too bad about the Skyler White backlash . Doesn't speak well of people calling the one ( sort of ) moral voice in the series , a ' b**** wife '.Initially frantic with love & worry about Walter's hesitation to seek treatment , Skyler rapidly turned into a ferocious mother who is torn between keeping her children safe from Walter's nefarious activities & associates - seeking her to do the right thing & ask for a divorce ; torn enough by her love for Walter , to not report him & being terrified of his killings ; torn between figuring out that he's a criminal & wanting to look after him after his lobectomy ; torn between wanting to drive away to another state & living like a frozen shell who laundered his drug money .Skyler also showed a keen intelligence in how she obtained Bogdan's car wash after he insulted her ; in how she tried to tone down Beneke's audit by appearing like an a ditzy , air- head to the taxman . Interesting that a woman of her cleverness & capacity to manipulate situations didn't use her powers for evil ,but only for clever tactics .As right as she was (initially) Skyler isn't portrayed as a pleasant or charming woman - which may have lead to the backlash on Anna Gunn's character . A dismal state of affairs where viewers can't sympathise with a character who is suffering , just because she isn't sweet or appealing .Skyler was at first reminiscent of the second Mrs . Corleone who questioned the conduct of her exalted husband Michael Corleone , unimpressed with money or power ( In stark contrast to the first Mrs. Corleone , who never questioned her husband , Vito Corleone - instead , wisely choosing to enjoy the benefits of living as the wife of a billionaire mafia godfather , posing as a benign Italian mama . Had she questioned the young Vito Corleone's ethics & not cooperated with him , she may not have had two sons & a grand-daughter who were gunned down & a son-in-law who was garrotted )Criticism about R.J. Mitte's character was also odd - Walter Jr. was a nice son who seemed to be more mature & even-tempered than most 15 yr old boys . He took many things bravely in his stride - not acting out with his father's diagnosis , loving his family , playing with his baby sister , maturely enduring boys his age sniggering at his cerebral palsy in a clothing store , losing a Challeger in 15 hrs , enduring Hank lashing out at him from his hospital bed , trying to raise money for his father's treatment , hiding his disappointment gracefully from Skyler at the car he got for his 16 th b'day , supporting his father when he looked vulnerable & injured ( wrongly believing he was a gambling addict who relapsed & got into a brawl ) & fixing his broken glasses , getting angry with his father for hesitating to seek treatment , getting angry when his parents concealed matters from him & confused him ... what's not to like about Walter Jr. ?In the final season , it was interesting to see the ' non - criminal ' adults , devolve . Under the strain of coming out to the Schraeders , Skyler requests Walter for a hit on Jesse ( which Walter doesn't heed to,at first ) ; Marie stupidly instucts Walter to commit suicide & then researches poisons to kill him ( which is strange since Walter never harmed her ... infact he helped her out with $ 176K worth of medical bills without taking credit for it , in front of Hank & also saved Hank from bankruptcy,from being sued by Jesse )Equally devolved was Hank Schraeder , who cruelly forced Jesse into a risky sting operation , inspite of his refusals ; steamrolling Steve Gomez who voiced concerns about Jesse getting killed during the sting with a chilling reply about winning either way , if Jesse got murdered ( since Hank would have it on video as evidence .. cold blooded )After Fring's death , Hank was ticked off by his superiors for playing favourites with his obsession with the elusive ' Heisenberg ' & neglecting all his other cases & duties as the newly promoted ASAC . His obsession continued even after he was ordered to call off the surveillance on Mike Ehrmantraut & close the case . Hank , not heeding to this order , lead to the death of Mike & the shanking of his 9 guys in prison along with their lawyer . Eventually , this unhealthy obsession lead to his own death & poor Gomez was part of the collateral damage .Why did Schraeder want to arrest Walter so badly anyway .. the man was terminally ill with his second cancer . He was retired from the drug business .
Was it to serve justice to the criminals who died on the way ( like Fring ) or to their relatives ( like maybe Krazy 8's family ? ) Hank didn't care about pushing Jesse into a sting which could get him murdered - so he clearly wasn't doing this for the sanctity of the human life or for justice .Or was it because Schraeder thought that his shooting by the Salamanca twins was because of Walter ? Was that why Marie slapped Skyler ? Well , it wasn't true anyway - Schraeder was shot because of Gustavo Fring . All Walter did was to pay $ 176K for Hank's therapy & ensure he didn't become a cripple ( & paying Jesse a $ 1.5 million partnership in Fring's set up , to not sue Hank & end his DEA career & bankrupt him )Hank didn't even think of the legacy & permanent notoriety that would be left to Walter Jr. & Holly if their rapidly dying father were to be exposed .. or that they could lose their home , business etc. ; jeopardizing the innocents' reputation , education & future ; all for merely sending Walter to prison for a few weeks ...
Hank's mad bull-headed rage was pointless . It served no sensible purpose when the object of his obsession was completely retired & to be dead in 6 months or less .Jesse Pinkman refered to Walter as a ' greedy a****** ' , & so it seemed , until the end , where Walter was ready to trade all his barrels of money to Jack in exchange for Hank's life . Walter's megalomania was mistaken for greed .Walter interestingly took zero credit in front of Skyler for leaving nearly $ 10 million with the Schwartzes & when he gave her the GPS coordinates to Hank's & Steve's grave , for a better deal for herself - he didn't point out , that by first asking for a hit on Jesse ( which he was reluctant for ) , she was even more culpable in Hank's death , than he ever was ( ironically she slashes Walter with a knife for Hank's death )In the end , the unstable , self destructive & occassionally homicidal , addict Jesse , was the complete undoing of both the careful Gustavo Fring & Walter White ( Fring should've stayed true to
his sound adage about never doing business with addicts & by extension , his wise decision to have no dealings with Walter ( an addict's partner.. ) which he revoked for an offer of $ 1.2 million for 38 pounds of meth. after being badgered by Walter , who falsely promised him that Pinkman was at his end & solely his problem )Walter had to clean up many times behind Jesse ( like he was his dad .. ) to save themselves from situations created by Jesse's naive mistakes ( dying out in the desert in a dead RV without water , gassing Emilio & Krazy 8 , leading Hank to the RV ) or outright saving Jesse alone ( from his dangerous junkie girlfriend , Jane Margolis , who started him on heroin , from Fring after trying to kill Fring's dealers & from Jack's crew after Jesse set fire to Walter's retired life ) .With each of his 3 guilty , nervous breakdowns ( after Combo's death , Gale's shooting , Mike's death ) he destroyed aplenty , like a self-destructive , emotional , homicidal , out-of-control bull in a china shop .Combo's death & Jesse's suicidal determination to kill two of Fring's drug dealers , forced a neutral & unwilling Walter ( who was sailing smooth seas ) to take sides , culminating in Walter killing Fring , finally . Jesse ruined that for Walter .Jesse's instability about Brock further destabilized Walter's retd. life by unravelling the stalemate between the Whites & the Schraeders causing Walter to lose his money , turn fugitive , Hank's & Gomez's death & Jesse's own enslavement by Jack's crew .Massacring Jack & his crew seemed unnecessary & illogical to avenge Hank. Jack executing Hank wasn't personal- only pragmatic ( & a lot less cruel than Walter's pragmatic & cold blooded shanking of Mike's 9+1 guys )Looking back Mike Ehrmantraut would've probably wished he didn't make that call to Gustavo , when he saw the Salamanca twins walk into Walter's house with axes . Gustavo would've carried on with Gale running the lab he himself assembled .The end of the series with Walter completing his to-do list ( leaving money for his children with the Schwartzes , GPS coordinates for Skyler's deal & saying goodbye to her , seeing his children , freeing Jesse from slavery , poisoning Lydia etc. ) & dying of a GSW was more conclusive than the end of Dexter - where Dexter should've died in the hurricane & been buried at sea with Debra .
I liked the ending and the thriller in each episode. It is totally unexpected


                
Now let's get one thing straight; this is a television program NOT for the faint at heart. If you like your viewing saccharine, with easy answers and everything wrapped up and snapped back to the beginning by the end of the episode, Breaking Bad is not for you. The premise alone should be enough to tell you that; a cancer-stricken father who is a chemistry teacher turns to illegal drug manufacture with a not-too-bright ex-student and struggles with his own mortality and morality along the way, doing his best to hide the new career choice from his pregnant wife, son with cerebal palsy, medic sister-in-law and law enforcer brother. Yes, this isn't light-weight material by any means.I'm not a fan of these shows that rely on "inflated sense of tension" to pump up the viewer's adrenaline levels while covering for poor scripting; stuff like 24, Lost and Prison Break started out well-enough but quickly descended into this cheap shock tactic approach to keep the audience hooked. Once I saw through this I stopped watching them completely and have been seeking out quality American shows that are well-produced and equally well-written, and I am happy to say that Breaking Bad is one of these.Bryan Cranston is perfectly cast as Walt, the man who has to make tough choices to provide for his family. He so perfectly becomes the character that it was not until later I realised he was previously cast as Hal in Malcolm In The Middle. His emotional range is staggering; with a few well-timed gestures or vocalisations he can convey several feelings at once, and when Walt is in pain it is completely believable. Walt is a man of few words, but chooses these words very carefully, so when he speaks everyone on-screen and in the audience are listening.Cranston isn't just carrying passengers though; he's ably supported by Anna Gunn as his wife Skylar, who brings just the right amount of care and concern for her husband and baby as needed and RJ Mitte plays the son who has CP and gives a very accurate, non-condescending portrayal of the condition so different from the ham-handed "sympathy ploy" approach so overused by shows from the States. Dean Norris plays Walt's brother Hank, the all-American police officer who doesn't take any guff and flushes out drug dealers for a living, with his quirky kleptomaniac wife Marie (the lightest character in this show, amusingly) who is handled with panache by Betsy Brandt. Rounding out the main cast is Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, every inch the nervy, paranoid and streetwise "cook" who becomes Walt's new partner and guide to the world of drug trafficking.There's much to recommend. Tight, well-plotted scripts that make the unbelievable tangible and don't waste a line while doing so. Superb, inventive direction and settings that perfectly fit the mood of the show, an interesting mixture of steadicam, handicam, point-of-view and camcorder shots that appear to be captured by the cast themselves. Excellent choice of soundtrack; almost every episode ends with a classic song and the musical cues throughout really add to the atmosphere without becoming overpowering; witness the searing, high-pitched noises when we see through Walt's eyes as he is in pain or being given bad news for an example.What is most remarkable is that the show never gives easy answers, never biases us towards the characters (we are given both sides of the debate and left to make our own choices, which respects the viewers intelligence) and always does things that you will not expect. There is not a single cliché to be found here, no way of knowing exactly how each person will react to the situations they are thrust into. These are complex, multi-faceted individuals with free will and their own motivations, who exist not as mere tools to advance the plot. The plot itself is always coherent and leaves very few loose ends. If you see an event or object framed, however subtlety, you can bet it will come back later on. Maybe not in the same episode, but as part of the story arc. And last but not least is the incredibly pitch black humour that crops up every now and then, so dark it almost feels uncomfortable to laugh.If you liked the first season of Dexter but don't like the direction it has now, Breaking Bad is for you. Not since I saw Firefly (a very different kind of show) have I enjoyed a television program this much. If they can carry this program on for two or three more seasons and then end it without dragging past the logical closure point - and with Walt the way he is, this is crucial - it will be one of the greatest drama series of all time.If you haven't tried it, start from the pilot episode, keep an open mind, and you just might find your new favourite show. I know I did.


                
*** The spoilers here are minor. *** Breaking Bad is an excellent action TV series. It makes you think, too. That's not all that common of a combination. It has brains and brawn. It also has a good smattering of dark humor. There's lots of excellent character development and acting to be found here. On the other hand potential viewers should be advised that every once in a while there is extreme gore put on the TV screen - body dissolved in acid - detached head of a drug snitch attached to the back of a tortoise - etc. Hey, it's a series about drug dealing. On the other hand it's also a series about relationships between people, their aspirations, tragedies and the hidden dark spots in their lives. What good or evil are the people that you know really capable of? Did Pip in Great Expectations have a clue that his benefactor was the convict he had helped as a child? Sometimes people will do quite unexpected things.
Cranston became my favourite comedy actor in Malcolm in the Middle, his timing is impeccable and his physicality brought a freshness to his performance. In Breaking Bad he proves that he is not limited in any way to comedy. Supported by a great cast of more than competent actors (with a special mention for Aaron Paul) Cranston is riveting as a terminally ill chemistry teacher who turns to the dark side to provide for his soon-to-be bereaved family.There are elements of comedy in Breaking Bad-very,very black comedy but comedy nonetheless and that too strikes just the right note in the writing and performances. Not one bit of this story would work if any of the writing,direction or acting was wrong. Everything is spot on. The characters are not written or played as stereotypes and the script is tight and drives the story along. The whole enterprise is about as absorbing as drama can be and one cannot wait to see what happens from one episode to the next- and what happens is never predictable. As for the people who throw up their hands in horror and say that a programme like this glorifies drug dealing and drug use, then watch the damn thing!! If ever a programme shows what drugs do to people then BB does. A real cautionary tale.I am into series 2 now and hope that the standard continues in the third series. A terrific example of what can be done with TV drama when playing it safe is off the agenda.


                
Breaking Bad is an immensely powerful show which is terrifically written, very well acted and creative in so many ways. The show is also well grounded and doesn't seem over exaggerated (something which could actually happen). The majority of the characters are interesting and so you can connect with them in many ways, the character arcs from the 'Pilot' to 'Felina' is truly astonishing. I for one have watched the series twice, the first concentrating on the characters and storyline and the second looking out for the beautiful pieces of foreshadowing and symbolism and also wondering why a character has chosen to do something. The cinematography and amount of thought and effort that has gone into each episode is just extraordinary. However BB can suffer from pacing issues particularly in between season 2-3 (literally the only negative).Many people will point out that the first season is slow but I found it to be a great introduction to the main characters and prepared you for future events. We get an introduction to Walter in the infamous RV a clever technique is used here (and in future episodes) which gives the audience a clichéd moment of "what happens next?" By the second episode Walter has killed a man. An extremely hard decision to make from an innocent person. By the last episode of this season we have established that Tuco is a major threat to our 'heroes' Walt and Jesse. But Walt begins to exhibit his own dark side when he introduces 'Heisenberg' and so from this point on there is no turning back because of the sacrifices and choices he has made for his family.Season 2 focuses on the other main character Jesse Pinkman and how a young trouble maker deals with the illegal meth making business. Due to Jesse being a 'lone ranger' so to speak it seems that he can hind his criminal activities better than Walt. But we realize Jesse is an emotional character in comparison to how heartless Walt can be. The death of Jane is a perfect example of these two parallels.Season 3 is slightly better than 2 as Walt and Jesse delve deeper into the meth world, and this affects those around them. Skyler must deal with the fact her husband is a criminal and doesn't understand why. The end of this season is one I favor over anything in seasons 1 and 2. 'Half and Full measure' are superb episodes because of how much Walt is willing to sacrifice to climb the business ladder and to show Mike and Gus what he's capable of. He means business and disposing of him is far from easy. Walt is toxic a Gus Fring in his own right, unpredictable and always ahead of the game.Season 4 just goes to show how the series continues to surprise us in many ways. From the first episode we still know Gus is at the top and Walt and Jesse are mere workers in a big operation. However Walt's ego continues to expand much like his cancer did/will and continues to find new and inventive ways to get his way. In 'Face off' (my personal favourite) Walt disposes of his boss and enemy in the best death of any TV show ever! Props to the special effects and makeup too. Now Heisenberg is truly the "one who knocks" and the meth kingpin.Season 5- Now that Fring is dead and no longer an issue Walt takes his place over Mike and Jesse. Walt feels at the top and he really is but he's completely lost touch with Skyler and the rest of his family and so things are just going to get worse. Jesse begins to see Walter as he really is (thanks to Mike) and they decide to leave the business. Walt despises this idea and his anger gets the better of him, killing Mike in the process. Believing it had to be done he shrugs it off and hinds it from Jesse; he becomes ever more suspicious. 'Gliding over all' sets up the final season perfectly as Hank discovers that Walt is Heisenberg. Tensions have risen yet again! I get goosebumps whenever I watch this scene! When the truth is out in the final season s**t has hit the fan and everyone is at breaking point. Walt appears weak in the middle of this season, desperately hiding and protecting/disposing of anything Hank can use to convict him. The complete breakdown and effects of Walt's actions have created all of this- disconnection of family and friends, the deaths of hundreds of innocent people and the scars he's left on those affected. Walt's demise is sad but should be satisfying. He convinced himself it was for his family but in the end he admitted it was for himself- he felt 'ALIVE'. It just goes to show even the nicest people are capable of doing horrific things if they convince themselves its for the greater good. He can't justify what he's done but can try and set things right and finally see himself for what he has become and understand that 'Heisenberg' was under his skin the whole time he just needed something to set him free. A life altering thing that made him see the world in a different light and knew he had to change to adjust to this situation even if it was morally wrong, Walt was Heisenberg and he was alive....Its easy to see how I believe this is and always will be the greatest TV show ever, its original story, amazing moments, characters and everything else are simply unmatched. I'm so glad BB received many awards- it fully deserves them all. It is a work of Art, the highest point Television is going to reach and that is the truth. Breaking Bad is a masterpiece.
Unforgettable, an instant classic, Breaking Bad delivers in every department.It's such a joy to escape and delve into Walter Whites world, escaping your own for a while.Sublimely written, an amazing plot that unfolds perfectly and leaves you wanting and waiting for more, Cranston brings Walter to life so much so you get pulled in and absorb everything, but hats off to many of the cast especially Aaron Paul, Dean Norris, RJ Mitte, Bob Odenkirk and Anna Gunn.Annas character Skyler was also amazing, I found myself hating Skyler which just lends and validates Annas skill set as an actress.What an incredible show Breaking Bad is, it has raised the bar and left me saddened it's over.


                
There's honestly too much to talk about when it comes to pointing out the great things about Breaking Bad, but the thing that mainly stood out, for me, were the character relationships. They were so well-defined, and I mean every one of them. You could feel respect between characters, hatred, fear and love. Of course, the one that stands out is Walt and Jesse. Never before has there been such an unpredictable, volatile and constantly shifting relationship in any sort of media. The actors who portay them add so much to that equation, of course, from Dean Norris to RJ Mitte to the great Jonathan Banks and the stellar Anna Gunn, but there's those two performances that rise above the rest. Aaron Paul is Jesse. The childish tendencies and bitter self-loathing that Paul brings to the character, among other things, is truly impressive. But then there's Bryan Cranston. Dear God. It almost goes without saying, but his is some of the best acting ever. His transformation from hen-pecked nerd to intensely intimidating monster is just awe-inspiring.One of the best shows to ever grace the small screen, I'm glad I finally caught it and will probably be kicking myself for the next few weeks for putting it off for so long.


                
An excellent series, I came here to advise all fans of good series and good actors, to attend this magnificent series, because this series is certainly marked by that. One of my main reasons for writing this is to thank all actors present in this series, that have done a great job, they are great professionals, thanks for the times provided. Bryan Cranston, was a phenomenal actor, that changes is personality from one moment to another, unfortunately haven't seen in other works, but surely i will look for him from now on. The most shocking, and perfectly executed scenes, are the one's with the famous Jesse Pinkman showing the life of an addicted, that surely is very compelling to see. I also want to give here my congratulations to the actor RJ Mitte still, that made a magnificent role, surprised me, and he is clearly a kid who we really like, trought out the series. Anna Gunn is the most sensual of all, the sexiest, unpredictable and the most brilliant women have seen, loved the actress. The ending part is excellent, because it is not the typical happy ending, and that pleases me very much, it needs to have a great message to do, and execute something like that. Thank you all.
Breaking Bad begins as a gory and short-scripted plot with not much wiggle room, and by season 2 will have you hooked like a blow-fish on its bait on endless plot-twists and innumerable synchrinistic situations that include the dynamic interaction of all actors equally intertwined with the plot itself. Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, and Dean Norris are nothing short of pheonominally sharp in their roles. The acting is fantastic. The plot is unique, intriguing, and nonetheless extremely entertaining despite the x-rated gore of blood guts rarely depicted in any series comparable. Having only watched slightly under half of the series so far, it's hard to give much more input, but I still felt compelled to write a review on my behalf of my enjoyment so far. It is definitely a recommend choice of mine for netflix or as a series in general.


                
I have only seen a few episodes of this show, but I can see why people liked it so much! The plot was certainly different, with a chemistry teacher learning he has lung cancer and turning to making and selling crystal meth with one of his former students to provide financial stability for his family. I liked the scenes where they make the drug deal attempts and try to hide where they're making the stuff. I also think the scenes where he's with his family and his wife is pregnant-those are very touching. If this were a sitcom, the scenes where he's trying to hide what he's doing from his family would be funny! I loved to scene in the first episode where he coerces the student into helping him into helping him, and I like scene in an episode where the wife tries to return a gift and gets arrested for shoplifting it! This was one of the best shows of all time. *** out of ****
One of the best serials i ever seen. Realistic, excellent drama. But the end can be different, in my opinion. All troubles were from Jessie Pinkman and he stay alive. I think Jessie first, who need to be killed there, not Walter. Walter was guilty only in few murders, all the rest were not good persons... At least, Creators of this work, can show us. What happens with money, which Walter leave for his family? What happens with Jessie?Anyway its been amazing work. The first episode was very good and memorable. The scenes with violence were very realistic and detailed. In the same time it was not like just a simple action movie. Inner feelings of the heroes were great, how they show their stresses,emotions.


                
Breaking Bad The TV series "Breaking Bad", created by Vince Gilligan, is about the chemistry teacher Walter White (Bryan Cranston) who contracted cancer. Knowing that he would leave his wife and his children behind with a huge mountain of debts, he decided to get on the business of meth cooking. Together with his partner Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), they get into lots of trouble that come to a head when Walter's brother-in-law, the DEA-agent Hank Schrader (Dean Norris), finds out their second identity. I usually prefer other types of series like HIMYM and others. But when I started with the first episode, it immediately attracted me in a way that I always had to watch the following episode. It might seems that there are some repetitive moments, but it's still great to see how they solve all these problems and how much expression the actors can bring into all the different scenes.


                
I started watching Breaking Bad when it was quite unknown (in Germany), basically because I finished up another series and looked for a new one to kill some spare time so I was rater impartial and picked it because I enjoyed Brian Cranstons performance in "Malcom in the Middle".But while Breaking Bad became more and more popular through media, I was astonished, that unexpectedly many people started watching this series - which seems rather usual - but in Germany it is a big deal, when a Series, which does not run on TV, nor is available in German language, breaks through to the crowd of people, that are not really interested into movies or series, but only watch stuff that is easy to understand and does not require any previous knowledge on character or story. For example Game of Thrones or The Sopranos, are only known by a "few" people that are interested in good series in general, but not by the ones that like so sit on the sofa an just simply consume what is on the screen at that particular moment.So I asked myself why Breaking Bad attracted so much general interest, while e.g. Game of Thrones did not. Is it the topic, so the the whole drug business thing? Is it the characters that matter? Or was it just a kind of "happy accident", that especially this series became so popular? Without a doubt, the writing and the screenplay and just that whole series as such is one of the best ones ever made! But I like to imagine, that people tend to oversee things and in this case those "things" are other brilliant series. Being said, that Breaking Bad was the first real drama series that made its way to public audience, it is self-evident that people are blinded by the light of a really good series. Of course the most of the people, that saw Breaking Bad, mentioned it as "the best series ever made", but I say that this is the only thing the most people are capable of saying.What I mean is, that everyone loves Breaking Bad, because there were simply no other series to compare with. If you for the first time eat at a fast food restaurant, it is only natural to say, that "this was the best burger ever!", but to determine if it really was the "best burger ever" you will have to eat several burgers at several restaurants. My personal problem is, that you can not claim something for "the best thing ever" if you have never seen something like it. I am clearly not willing to say, that you have to know everything about a thing to enjoy it, but the hole swarm of people that glorifies Breaking Bad so badly that you as a big fan start to question the whole series really grinds my gears.So all in all it is a incredible masterwork and worth admiring, but you should - as always - think twice.


                
Here's a TV series I almost skipped, coz on paper it just didn't seem that interesting to me. I eventually I gave it a chance, and I'm sure glad I did. Although there were some quality dips during the run of the series it certainly has earned it's place as one of the most memorable series of all time. They were wise enough to create a 5 season story arc and give the characters a chance to come full circle. Maybe they've stopped at the height of their success, but it's a hell of a lot better then keep milking it season after season until it has bled dry like some other series did. Some people apparently were disappointed with the ending but I don't agree. Maybe people had such high expectations nobody was ever going to be able to match them. Following the 'bad guy' for 62 episodes was incredible fun and very addictive. If you haven't seen Breaking Bad (who hasn't?), give it a chance. You won't regret it!


                
It is funny when you think back on 'Breaking Bad's early days and how they contrast with the way it is now. For its first two seasons, it was largely a cult show outside the U.S., featuring a fanbase that was passionate but not exactly huge. It was even dropped from UK TV due to poor ratings, never to be picked up again. However, around the time the third season premiered, its popularity began to rise, increasing with each subsequent season, thanks to word-of-mouth, reaching a pinnacle with the fifth season becoming the most-talked-about television series of 2013, as large numbers of people starting catching up with the show. This is undoubtedly due to the quality of the series – it is absolutely brilliant. The current success of it can be seen through three recent achievements – it entered The Guinness World Book of Records for being the best-reviewed TV show ever, the Writers Guild of America listed it as one of the great TV series ever written and it also walked away with the top prize at this year's Emmys (and chances are, may do next year as well). One aspect of the series that no one can dispute is the brilliance of its cast. Thanks to Walter White, Bryan Cranston is no longer "that guy who played the dad in Malcolm in the Middle" and has deservedly won three Emmys for his role as Walt because like the show, he is fantastic, especially as he conveys his character's development from being "Mr. Chips" to "Scarface", as creator Vince Gilligan once remarked in his pitch for the series. Meanwhile, Aaron Paul is superb as Jesse, perfectly capturing a range of sides to his character, from being naive to mature to stubborn to introspective. Aside from the concept of how an ordinary man change transform into an entirely different person, at the very heart of 'Breaking Bad' is the tumultuous relationship between Walt and Jesse. It goes up and down like a roller-coaster, yet it gives the show heart even as the pair do desperate things and we, as viewers, can't helped but be deeply engaged with them, as they argue, confide, fight and of course, cook.However, the other cast members are just as good as the two leads. As crime scene cleaner Mike Ehrmantraut, Jonathan Banks is outstanding (he should've won that Emmy) and Dean Norris is terrific with strong screen presence as Walt's DEA brother-in-law, Hank Schrader. While Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte are both great as Walt's wife and son, as they form a family relationship with Cranston that is never anything but realistic considering the situations he places them in, even if Gunn's character is not the most likable. Bob Odenkirk is a pleasure to watch as Walt and Jesse's metaphor-loving lawyer Saul Goodman, providing some comic relief, especially whenever his bodyguard Huell Babineaux (Lavell Crawford) is around. Special mention should be given to Giancarlo Esposito, who is mesmerising as Gus Fring, the owner of fast food chain, Los Pollos Hermanos. 'Breaking Bad' is one of those series where every episode leaves wanting you more, especially with a number of incredible cliffhangers that Gilligan has left viewers dangling on – without spoiling anything, the season five mid-way cliffhanger left me (and many others) desperate to find out what would happen next. It has grown progressively darker over the course of its five seasons, starting out as a black comedy before slowly (and understandably) morphing into something deeper and more serious, while still retaining moments of humour. Similarly, it has also grown increasingly good over its five seasons, being excellent at first before becoming incredible; with the recently-aired fifth season the best of the lot (some of the greatest episodes in the entire series are a few near the end). The key to this show's success is Gilligan, the very man who created it, who has written and directed a multitude of episodes and always manages to brilliantly place the characters in disastrous situations. The quality of the writing, acting and directing (with a special mention to Rian Johnson) on display here is exemplary and on a level that is rarely equalled. If you haven't seen this truly masterful series yet, then you know what you need to do and if you have seen it all, I can't imagine any reason why you wouldn't want to go back and watch it all over again. I know I will.


                
I came upon this TV series in an unusual way, a young college friend Kyle mentioned I might like it. I am a Chemist and the main character here is also a Chemist, so we make a natural connection, of sorts. But there is where the similarity ends.I watched seasons 1 through 4 on Netflix streaming, often 2 or 3 consecutive episodes in a day. Then I watched the last season on AMC. It is interesting to observe how the characters' morals and values changed as the key characters got further and further into the drug business. Through most of the episodes when confronted by his wife, Walter always said he did it for his family. In the final episode we find that was not the truth, he did it because of the challenge, it made him feel alive and in control of something. He realized he was good at it.Bryan Cranston is really super-good as Walter White, high school Chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, just turning 50, married with a teenage son and just finding out another is on the way. But Walter gets bad news, he has lung cancer and probably doesn't have much longer to live. He keeps it a secret at first, but also wants to leave his family in decent financial shape. Truly an honest, upright citizen up until then, his desperation gets him to dabble into the crystal meth drug trade. He is a natural, he is a Chemist, and he figures, what's the harm?White gets hooked up quite by accident with Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, a former student of his, one of those who never paid much attention in class and didn't learn much. But Jesse is connected into the crystal meth market and White needs him as a partner. Their first foray, in Jesse's beat-up mobile home in a remote hideaway in the desert doesn't turn out real well, but the relationship is sealed. Not so much by mutual admiration, but by parasitic need.White eventually takes on the mythical-sounding name, "Heisenberg", and his reputation spreads. An interesting name, Heisenberg was a real scientist who is credited with the "Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle", and it is fitting because of the "uncertainty" in Walter White's life.I can't say too much about both actors, Cranston and Paul. Both of them play their roles to perfection, it would be hard to imagine better picks, and their acting is mainly responsible for my interest in seeing more episodes. As well as Anna Gunn who is Skylar, Walter's wife and of course Giancarlo Esposito who comes on as Gus the local drug lord who uses his chicken restaurant as his front.An interesting additional character is played by Dean Norris who happens to be White's B.I.L. Hank Schrader, a DEA agent. Of course there are wives and children, but Walter, Jesse, and Hank are the focus of the entire story line.The last episode was last night, September 29th, 2013. His cancer didn't get Walt, he took a bullet as he made sure Jesse avoided getting shot. He had taken a fantastic journey.
