This series looks good, is videography and sets are very good.Acting is OK too.What lets it down is that the scriptwriters thought nothing of being historically accurate. For instance official papers, released and available for public viewing, show that The Queen never tried to force her sister not to marry Peter Townsend. Indeed the papers show that an act of Parliament would be passed, if she wanted to marry him, that removed Margaret from the line of succession but left her with her royal titles etc. It was Margaret who decided not to marry Peter Townsend, after a visit to him in Belgium. But either lazy script-writing, or the desire to perpetuate a myth, gives entirely the wrong impression of what happened. There is enough within the long reign of The Queen that could easily be portrayed accurately and entertain us with a good story without the need to resort to tawdry misrepresentations.


                
Are you people crazy? What on earth is appealing about this show? My god is it slow! So incredibly slow. I watched 2 eps and seriously how are people giving this 9/10?This is a show about over entitled utterly superficial people who just happened to be born into the lap of luxury. John Lithgow sounds nothing like Churchill, Claire Foy is like a supermodel compared to the real Elizabeth and Matt Smith just reeks of smug. The acting is so drawn out and laboured. Every. Line. Is. So. Stretched. Out.I'm sorry but this is mystifying to me that it's getting such good reviews. Save yourself the trouble and skip this entire event. Dry, dusty, dull.Bad acting, boring writing and terrible subject matter. Makes me wish Australia would get its act together and become a republic already and cast aside these vacuous rich idiots.


                
I will give the positives: it is lavishly produced and at times quite beautiful to look at. Kudos to the cinematographers and cameramen. The costumes and historic sets are spot on. No one does period dramas better than the British.That's about it. Frankly, I was deeply disappointed in this series. I had hoped it would help to humanize an otherwise elevated group of people who the rest of the world only sees through the peephole of the camera lens. Sadly, instead of seeing human beings who we can identify with, we instead get dreary, one-dimensional characters who are about as interesting and self-aware as the stair bannisters they lean against.Claire Foy and Matt Smith, solid actors both, have zero chemistry together here; and even if they did have a spark, the Liz/Philip relationship dynamic is so flatly and stiffly written that it wouldn't matter anyway. Instead of seeing how Liz and Philip built themselves into the mutually supportive team we all know the Royal duo m to be,the script instead devolves into soap opera. What we get in the end area prudish wife who would have been a prude if she were a royal or not,and the usual staid, detached, disillusioned British husband who seems unable to find any sense of purpose in the life he signed on to. MattSmith is capable of so much more depth than what the script has allowed him.The same can be said about Vanessa Kirby. She is a fine actress, but her Princess Margaret here is annoying and one dimensional, and so unsympathetically written that it was difficult for me to feel any empathy for her or see her as anything more than a spoiled and petulant little sister and party girl...the 1950's version of Chloe Kardassian.And the list goes on. I could linger ad-infinitem about how much I ended up losing interest in most of these characters by the time the second season came around. Thank heavens for John Lithgow, who shows us all what a truly experienced and commanding actor can do to elevate a screenplay from sorry to passable. He is this series' one saving grace.The Crown is okay for what it is: a very expensive and lavish documentary. Just don't bother keeping the tissues nearby. You won't need them.


                
Until Season 2 I enjoyed this show very much and recommended to everyone as a very serious and profound work. But now I am outraged by absolutely untrue story about alleged romance between the greatest Russian ballerina Ulanova, who visited London and performed in 1956, being 47 years old, and Prince Philip. How come that the creators of the show did not do elementary fact check and so easily tinted the name of the most respected and world famous artist? They even have gone so far as to put some young Asian chick to impersonate the goddess of dance, which was just ridiculous! Why when it comes to Russia or former Soviet Union western movie makers create such hideous unbelievable stories? I absolutely lost interest in this show because how can I believe anything it tells us about the Queen and her family?
The Crown of Crowns The opening credits will remind you of Game of Thrones - music with a heavy base line and galloping tempo and the animated metamorphoses of something metallic, this time not the cogs of an imagined castle, but a crown. All this for a story about a strident but soft- spoken young princess about to be queen. Instead of the blood and gore of GOT there is the constant roiling bronchial cough of King George that is only interrupted by heavy drags on his cigarettes. This cacophonous heavily smoke-fogged scene is repeated a half-dozen times in the first episode to be certain we don't miss the point: the king and all of his doctors see no connection of his smoking to the onset of lung cancer. It's as unsettling as any battle scene in GOT. Throughout the series the throbbing music score which portends enemy sieges in GOT here is used to accompany Elizabeth as she walks up stairs or enters a palace or rides in an automobile. This show is for you if you dislike subtlety. Every important plot point is foreshadowed by courtly sorts or cabinet members discussing the seriousness of what's about to happen, then it happens with lots of musical queues to tell you how to feel when it happens. Since there is no mystery about Elizabeth's future or past, it's all for nothing. Her inner life, psychological struggles, secret loves or hates are never explored. This is a Life Magazine version of young Elizabeth. John Lithgoe does a caricature of Winston Churchill he probably wants to disown. The only reason to watch this heavy-handed trivial story is Eileen Atkins who plays Elizabeth's grandmother.
The reason i started watching this was because i hoped for some kind of real life drama, but i guess since I'm not a British man a mannered "fight" over what flower to put in the vase is not that exciting.
The royal institution is belong to the past and interests no one but the old queen and some weird old British people. This show is no different.
This show is literally one the most boring and grueling thing i have ever watched.
Its 3 stars and no less only for the authentic acting. Rather than that 1 star show.


                
