Great historical drama series with excellent acting and magnificent scenery. But I couldn't help getting somewhat bored by the 7th episode. Perhaps this is because of the time we live in, where politic has nearly become a dirty word. Seeing the stifling atmosphere of the British Court and Parliament, as accurately portrayed as they are, makes me wonder if we'll ever grow up as a species. It sometimes feel like a theater play where everybody is a puppet on strings, pulled by some unknown phenomena. The King shooting birds, a sister who's life is destroyed, an Empire in decadence and a heroic prime minister who never knows when to quit, I was actually suffering for them. Yet, Queen Elisabeth elicit respect and comes through honestly trying to make the best of what freedom of action she has, helped along by a part time, cynical and frustrated husband. The sound environment of the drama is utterly pompous. I had to have my remote in hand all the time when any dialogue ended and the music rose up so much that I risked getting knocks on the wall from my neighbors. One thing I retained from the series is that being a king or a queen is much more a malediction as anything else.


                
Very much enjoyed season 1, lots of interactions between all the players in the family and government. Season 2 become more of a study in ego, attitudes and scandals. More of a soap opera style, be that what what it is. Claire was asked to look stunned, surprised, concerned and worried, a lot. I was quite surprised there was not even a single line of dialogue dedicated to the architect of peace in the Suez, Lester Pearson, who even won a Nobel peace prize for it for heavens sake!


                
The newest Netflix series follows the life of Queen Elizabeth II, starting with the time of her ascension to the thrown after the death of her father George VI. The show focuses on the most common narrative in her biographies: the strive to balance the intricacies of the life of the royal family against her role as an institution in the political and public landscape of the country. Save for a few flashback scenes, the storyline follows the historical line of events, adding little in terms of speculations or contradictions to the common public interpretation.To be honest, having watched recent great Netflix shows as 'House of Cards', 'Narcos' and 'Stranger Things', 'The Crown' felt, while solid, somewhat flat. Out of these four shows it is undoubtedly the most 'mainstream' one. And while that is not a bad thing per se, my main gripe is that the show never leaves the treaded paths of the 'royal' genre. This starts with the way that Elizabeth II is portrayed: an essentially flawless (though at first insecure) queen surrounded by people acting more often than not upon purely personal - and flawed by virtue of simply being human - motives. The resulting 'superhuman' depiction of the Queen to me feels superficial and does not leave much room for character depth. Now it is understandable that retelling the story of someone who has been in the public eye for over 70 years, revered by millions, dictates limits to the narrative - unless you are willing to take risks. Yet I wish that the the show did take at least SOME risks. In the end of the day, 'The Crown', while not as captivating or original as other recent Netflix series, offers an enjoyable and pitoresque depiction of some of Britain's history.


                
I gave it a 7 because the scenery, clothes, casting, and acting were excellent, but what were the Writers thinking? This T.V. Series is so boring. The Monarchy already has a reputation for being boring, but I thought this would be different because it's about a young Prince and Queen. Didn't they ever have any excitement in their lives? I'm stuck on Season 1, Episode 2 and I don't know how much more I can take. If anybody is looking for some good Series, try Poldark (Amazon), Grand Hotel (Hulu) or Velvet (Netflix). So far this is way too boring.


                
I hope they will forgive me if i say that i was thoroughly disappointed with the first 7 episodes of this show, and that i could not bear to watch the rest as it raised questions towards my morals.What i think they did wrong?
Unlike most other stories out there, this particular one about the works of Queen Elizabeth II had a great opportunity to be put to picture. But unreal acting, bad direction, and very dry dialogues couldn't achieve that.
Now let me put in my personal thoughts on the S01E07...
Similar to the previous episodes, this one had a theme around which the story moved.
The theme was "Education and the Queen", which was needless to say very appealing until the end. When somehow the writers thought it appropriate to add a sequence where Philip the Duke of Edinburgh asks the Queen of England to kneel down.
Correct me if i am wrong here, but the implication here is that the Queen is going to give her husband a BJ, while she postpones her appointment with the future private secretary.
And this where the episode ends. Now some simple minded people might be okay with this, but as this tiresome review may suggest, i wasn't.
I was so disappointed that my disappointment led me to delete 61 GB of The Crown which took a whole day to be downloaded on my computer.
I have only one question for the Writers, " What were you guys thinking?"


                
The episodes that focused on Margaret were really hard to sit through. I was bored to tears by this childish, ridiculous person as portrayed in the series. The Queen was played superbly, as always, by Claire Foy. It will be hard to get used to someone else playing that role. A good series, a solid series, but please omit more story line about Margaret. She is a boring, immature person for whom one feels no sympathy whatsoever.


                
This was such a great show. Great actors, great script. But then, "Porn". I don't get it? Unless you were trying to ruin a great show! It was just not nessasry to the story, or the characters! Am I missing something? Is this what the public wants. I am sure that there are plenty of porn titles out there to choose from, right? Why can't people just watch porn without infecting everything else.


                
This series is very character driven and the story itself is linked with the history of Britain in the 20th century, which has now receded into the past. However, Elizabeth II, the British monarch since 1952, belongs to both centuries. Many of us want to learn about the young woman who became Queen and how she fared in those early years of her reign in the 1950's coping with personal conflicts, and learning the job that she inherited on the death of her 56 year old father. This first season did not disappoint me. The pace was somewhat slow at the start but as I became familiar with the characters, I found the series a great dramatization of the events of the period. Claire Foy captures the beauty and character of the young Queen. She comes to the throne while on a royal visit to Africa with her husband. The sudden turn of events in her life and that of the nation and the Commonwealth is very starkly projected onto our television screen. We move on to the funeral and Coronation and within a few years, a constitutional crisis involving her sister Margaret, which allows for no compromise. We see the Queen Mother overtaken by grief with the death of her husband, as well as the loss of her home and her title. The Queen's husband, Phillip, an ambitious young man, is forced to set aside his naval career and play the supporting role to his wife. Elizabeth tries to treat him as an equal but it seems there is no way as the Prince Consort, to follow his own career. Then, there was the Duke of Windsor, formerly King Edward VIII, who shows up seeking more money to finance his lavish lifestyle and that of his wife. Matt Smith performed the energetic and athletic Prince Phillip, who became disillusioned with his limited role; Dame Eileen Atkins, as the grandmother, Queen Mary, is outstanding; Victoria Hamilton as the Queen Mother seems very distant, not the sweet lady we thought we knew; the role of the Duke of Windsor was magnificently performed by Alex Jennings; John Lithgow, in the role of Winston Churchill, seemed out of his comfort zone (Timothy West...maybe too old now, would have been a better choice); Jeremy Northam was very suited to Anthony Eden, the former Foreign Minister, who was ailing but tried to work with the Queen over the Princess Margaret affair and then tried unsuccessfully to deal with Egyptian President Nasser; Jared Harris didn't look at all like King George VI but he was very convincing as the ill-fated king who took over from his brother, presided over victory in World War II and died at age 56. All in all, great television viewing.


                
Fell in love with this series. The costume, locations and casting is just fantastic and I felt as though the stories were very well portrayed. There wasn't one character in there that I didn't think was cast perfectly. Such a shame that the story line couldn't last much longer! Here's to hoping there's a series 2 in the pipeline.


                
