The Crown is certainly a beautiful drama. There was no expense spared in replicating some iconic scenes. But from the first episode onward, there are some significant historic inaccuracies that detract from the production.The most grievous is in the way the writers frame the roles of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. For one thing, it's clearly documented that she fled England before his abdication. She did not sit by his side while he gave the abdication speech. She was in France, sobbing her eyes out.And, she only met Queen Mary once, at a ball, and only for a moment. However, she took steps to heal the rift, and the Queen famously added a PS to a letter saying, "I send a kind message to your wife." By the 1950s, there was barely any contact between the Palace and the Windsors. They were off in Paris or in New York, and there were no circumstances under which he would have been an adviser to the Queen. This is all fabricated.Also, one of the writers must have it in for the Queen Mother, because her portrayal is nothing like the friendly, fun loving woman that she was. She's almost unrecognizable.My advice to anyone watching is to consider this as "inspired by" the life of the Queen, but by no means take it as fact.


                
Whilst I am not particularly interested in Royalty and such I find the Crown engrossing. I think the real reason is the superb cast and obvious amount that has been spent on the details. 90 % of the portrayals are totally believable and I think that's really how you judge a good production. Claire Foy does an impressive job as the Queen. She brings a lovely vulnerable side to the character that makes Lisbeth seem very human. Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margret is sultry and untamed. The other stand out portrayal is Alex Jennings as the abdicated King. Watch it, you won't be disappointed.


                
I was drawn into the series immediately. Although, I felt Peter Morgan might have dictated his Jewish heritage toward Prince Philip unflatteringly.First, Matt Smith might not have the right look as Prince Philip in real live. He is less handsome with somehow odd facile features and wrong hair color in nature. I only watched the first two episodes and he was already bottom naked several times. Which I would not think it depicted Queen's husband in the dignified fashion. Mr. Morgan's reason might be Prince Philip's background implying himself as a Nazi's sympathizer. Recently, I watched "Edward VIII: The Nazi King" which told the Nazi Sympathizer history of Duke and Duchess Windsor. So I would only assume further episodes ever containing abdicated King Edwards might suffer the similar fates.The plots and scripts were gripping and enticing. Settings and scenes were grand and meticulous. Peter Morgan is not the first person took the liberty to steer the story toward his likeness or unlikeness. However, the show could be better without such obvious biases. Objectivity should be followed when it is required.Nevertheless, as the chronological events unfolding Queen Elizabeth demonstrating her great strength to ride out personal and political storms was remarkably admirable. To be a leader who cannot directly influence politics requires great deal of self-restraining. We can all knowledge that this program very well depicted on that. After finishing first 2 seasons , I couldn't wait for the 3rd .


                
Monarchist propaganda, just for grannies to watch - this is what part of the audience has been saying about it... Well, it just seems that I have seen the wrong series, where the Windsors are portrayed as full of fancies, the Crown is portrayed as sheer circus pageantry, King Edward VIII as a pernicious playboy, the Duke of Edinburgh as a narcissist who gained the love lottery but does not value it sufficiently, Princess Margaret as a populist party girl... Not even Churchill escapes blame, as a senile leader who burns his own portrait painted by Graham Sutherland... And the cast, heavens! We never saw a wax museum reproduced with such perfection and visual 'whims.' Lithgow speaks just like Winston, Northam is Eden as is, Foy - who had already brilliantly performed Little Dorritt and Ann Boleyn - embodies the absolutist mentality including all its Inherent weaknesses. Very seldom we have seen so much opulence - both in form and content. And WOW no less than four great directors - Martin and Caron, from the Wallander series (which I keep seeing and re-seeing), Jarrold (from SIlent Witness and Brideshead Revisited), Daldry (from The Hours, Billy Eliot, The Reader)
I'm a history obsessed guy, and i can say that this series portrayed the British history in the best way. The series shows us that the British royals we see today and think they are so perfect are not so perfect, they are also a bunch of smokers and drunk people.
Another great thing is that this series is so accurate and correct in accordance to the real history, they didn't made up unnecessary drama just for viewers but they showed us the actual face of British royals.
This series also shows that the royals are not relieved from their duties as people say they are. people are saying nowadays that Britain is being run by the government entirely and royals have no role in running the country. this series disproves them entirely.
The series also showed that Queen and Prince Philip are not the "Power Couple" and are loved birds, but they had the same marital problems that 'normal people' have.


                
Breathtakingly elegant in its design and entrancingly complex in its character, it draws you in with brilliantly crafted drama and holds you with intricately layered performances. There's an atmosphere of overwhelming intensity which perfectly emphasises the unpreparedness of Foy's Elizabeth as she enters her new role and, while detractors will list their heightened knowledge of historical inaccuracies with the appropriate level of pomposity, it never claims to be a Wikipedia article. If you want pure history, watch a documentary.


                
The Crown's creator Peter Morgan had already had a lot of experience with royalty-inspired films and TV series, such as Henry VIII (2003), The Queen (2006) and The Last King of Scotland (2006), but this is definitely the peak of his career.Well-crafted and beautifully produced, The Crown is simply a joy to watch. It is a tale about a young and rather inexperienced woman that takes on a very serious duty she is still not prepared for. Thanks to the help and support of her Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, Elizabeth II is slowly but surely grows into the much- beloved Queen, who in 2017 became the only British monarch to celebrate a Sapphire Jubilee. You do not have to be a royalist to enjoy it.The Crown offers a stunning portrayal of the mid-20th century and of historical and political circumstances of the time. It also gives the audience a chance to learn more about 'how the other half lives', and most interestingly, about the personalities and private lives of the British Royal Family. In spite of some inaccuracies, The Crown still manages to send a powerful message: great power and great privileges come with great restrictions and great responsibilities.Claire Foy and John Lithgow simply own the roles they are playing, The Queen and Sir Winston Churchill, respectively. Those two deserve all the accolades they have received for their performances. Jared Harris shines as George VI; although he looks nothing like him, his stellar performance makes you forget about that. Eileen Atkins is also great as Queen Mary, although her performance shows Queen Mary in a different light than the usual accounts present her. Matt Smith, Pip Torrens and Jeremy Northam are all very convincing in their roles.However, I have to disagree with some of the cast choices. Vanessa Kirby is pretty and charming, but not enough to play the late Princess Margaret. Alex Jennings gives a great performance as the former king Edward VIII, now the Duke of Windsor, but for some reason, his voice in this drives me crazy. But the biggest mismatch, in my opinion, is Victoria Hamilton as The Queen Mother. That is most certainly not the woman Adolf Hitler once described as 'the most dangerous woman in Europe'.In spite of some minor flaws, the first series of The Crown is great enough to make you want to see the second one, which, given that it will portray the Suez crisis, sounds even more exciting.


                
It's a based-on-real-life-events fictional drama, well executed, with care for the details. It has a good flow of events in each episode, usually not overstaying in subplots. That's season 1.2nd season runs a bit slower in pace and has a distinct change in tone which is not necessarily bad, but it most surely is dragged out in the second half of the season. Nevertheless, the show is a good one, so definitely give it a try.Third season is on its way and I'm really curious in general to see how they are going to portray Diana's story when we come to that.


                
Bloody good acting and I now understand the impossible position of a monarch that turns out to be a human.


                
Let me first start off by saying that I am not a fan of dramas regarding royalty or political ambition, but wow, the Crown proved me wrong! The Crown is absolutely amazing as a show.The amazing attention to detail, the beautiful performances from Claire Foy and Matt Smith as Queen Elizabeth and Prince Phillip respectively, as well as dynamic and thought-out plots.John Lithgow's portrayal of Winston Churchill is amazing and he deserves the Emmy that he won for his work. The show uses his acting ability to perfectly capture Churchill's spirit and how he caused upset to his fellow politicians.The other thing that the show does amazingly well is demonstrate famous historical figures that tie to the Queen. The show does this very well and offers insight that may be different of how they are portrayed historically.Lastly, please watch the show! The show is absolutely amazing! The Crown stands on its own and it is wonderful to see so many creative geniuses come together to create such a fantastic show!


                
As I am not English, it is hard for me to say whether this show is really realistic but it depicts a couple that, apart from the glamour given to the Crown, has its difficulties. The next seasons are ongoing.


                
My review isn't an account of, how dare she say - "Or they might get silly ideas of getting independence," or fume over Prince Philip's family's association with the Nazi or Winston Churchill's policies and outlook towards the commonwealth. These are all events in history. They did happen. They haven't embellished or sugar coated it and have in several episodes "quoted" every historically accurate verbal discourse of various views on varying topics of the common wealth. As long as one remembers that these are all events from the "Past" and not how the world is today, we can actually praise the makers of the show for the portrayal of the Crown.Claire Foy has done a stellar job of portraying the young princess who marries Duke of Edinburgh at 21. For us born in the 80's, we've only seen the "grey queen" with no smile on her face. Seeing Claire Foy on screen, I had to remind myself that the Queen was once young and like you and I, had absolutely(well not entirely) no worries. The moment King George VI takes ill and things gradually fall on her shoulders we see her becoming the Queen.As a Head of the State she has done a LOT of unconventional things. She isn't as narrow minded as I thought and she has spirit and spunk.As Season 1 of the series came to a close and Season 2 began we see how the media covered her personal life and on the other hand when Churchill is more worried about Prince Philip flying instead of the crisis at hand we see how cunningly Winston Churchill turned the entire event in his favour whilst using the press as his pawn.The Queen triumphs in Ghana and manages to steer them from Russia and it is reported all over the world, thanks to the press. In the very same episode we see Jackie Kennedy's clothes stained with her husband's blood and we hear the queen gasp and say, "That is deliberate." I don't know if it is just me or if others noticed the gradual progress of how aggressive the journalists become. I believe it is something to look forward to as seasons 3 and 4 will have the Queen dealing with Margaret Thatcher and Princess Diana.I can't wait for the new season!My rating: 4.2/5
Recommend: If you love history but aren't into reading, watch this series. If you love history and love reading, join me in tsk-ing every time a certain bit is exaggerated.


                
"The Crown" is beautifully made, with no expense spared on the design of the sets, locations and costumes. Skillful acting by all the main players, especially Matt Smith as Prince Philip, Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth, Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margaret, Jared Harris as King George VI and John Lithgow as Sir Winston Churchill. Also fine performances in some of the smaller roles, especially Greg Wise as Earl Mountbatten (and he looks just like him) and Jeremy Northam as Antony Eden. My only knocks: some glaring historical inaccuracies in the writing (which I found distracting), perhaps to pump up the tension or drama, and too many wink-wink suggestions of impropriety among the royals without any proof. One interesting element of "The Crown" is the exploration of the roles of various private secretaries to the royal family members, such as "Tommy" Lascelles and Martin Charteris. Very interesting series and well done.


                
Another reviewer said this series is binge-able, and that it exactly what I have just done, having joined Netflix for the purpose.
I was three in 1952, so the series covers my lifetime; I know who the characters are or were.
Of course I agree with other reviewers who have remarked on the costumes, settings, cars etc, and those factors are indeed superb. But it's also very sure-footed in the balance between fact and fictionalised events.
Every now and then, I said "s/he would never have done that" - as when Philip kisses Elizabeth at the coronation. And of course there are language errors, usually anachronisms such as 'austerity' and 'devastated', but as someone who is always vigilant for those, I have to acknowledge that there are very few. A lot of characters usher someone into a room by saying "Shall we?" But these are details.
I usually hate loud music, but here it's very good music, and only rarely intrusive.
The only episode I didn't think much of was the melodrama about Philip's relatives being killed in the plane crash, which was superfluous and went on too long.
But the casting is perfect, and many of them really look like the originals, e.g. Mountbatten and the young Philip.
The recent book about Margaret shows that the portrayal of her here is spot on - and we all knew Tony was bi at the time!
The recreations of contemporary newsreels and TV are perfect too.
It is all simply addictive and wonderful (and we get two looks at Matt Smith's divine naked buttocks).
I can't wait for series 3.


                
Great acting and a very addictive series. Looking forward to S3 and a further look into the Royal family


                
I am highly impressed with the show. I am currently on the 7th episode and it has been wonderful to watch. Learning about the royal family this way is beautiful. I am in love with Queen Mary of Teck. I am not very happy about the way the Queen Mother is portrayed though. Comeon, she was England's favorite grandma and there was not much to portray her in good light. Queen Elizabeth II is gracious, smart and also very lucky to have had Winston Churchill. Her husband, HRH Prince Philip was kind of annoying in this series but that's really how he can be though. I know it comes from the best place.


                
I have just started watching this series with my wife. With these sort of things you often wonder how much is fact or fiction dressed up to misrepresent the truth. It is clearly well put together however I feel very disappointed by the way they misrepresent the queen's heritage. In particular her Grand mother, Queen Mary. She is portrayed as an English woman, when in fact she spoke English poorly with a thick German accent.She played a big role in preparing the queen for her role which is so far not shown.However I am enjoying it. It does allow one to reflect on an important part of British history.


                
What a wonderful show. What a wonderful actress as QE II, and what wonderful character studies and vignettes. The production values and special effects are remarkable for television (all those early 1950s airliners!) and in many ways the episodes are just heartbreaking. The principal actress around whom all this swirls is Ms Foy, and she should be playing this role for as long as her little heart desires--I've read that actors will be "aging out," but if they can recreate BOAC airplanes and make John Lithgow look 5' 6" they can certainly make Ms Foy "age in place" if she wants the job.Here come the spoilers, and to my mind the highlights: The episode "Knowledge is Power" with QE II realizing that her Oxbridge tutor left out a few bits in educating her, but then hauling out her copybook to read Salisbury and Churchill the Riot Act for deceiving her was stirring and a tour de force of acting fireworks with Ms Foy never even raising her voice.And the pathetic dignity and courage Ms Foy demonstrates after Phillip pushes her buttons once too often with his self-centered whining and she chases him out of the villa only to discover that the cameramen were watching. If we only still had men of sufficient character and compassion to do what that cameraman did.For another character study and another view of P-1 and P-2, watch "A Royal Night Out." I love them both, which probably gives you a fair idea of my own bizarre tastes. Pay particular attention to P-2 and the proprietor of the "Knocking Shop." Absolutely hilarious.
I have to say this show is not what I expected. After watching this, I'm surprised the royal family doesn't just look at everyone and quit. They're treated like dogs on a leash by parliament and have even less freedom than elected members of government do in other countries. I can't believe anyone, let alone a king, queen, prince, or princess, would ever allow anyone to dictate and control their lives this way. If any of this is true, I don't know how they can even stand to be anywhere near each other or how there hasn't been a recent war of the houses. For gods sakes, they're even told what to wear, how to do their hair, when they have to wake up, where they need to go every day, it's just horrible. And that doesn't even count who can they can or marry, where they can vacation, etc. Quite frankly, if any of this is true, someone needs to slap Parliament on their behinds like their nasty behavior says they should be. At this point, I feel rather sorry for the English royals.


                
I just finished the first season of The Crown and I really enjoyed it. It dragged on a bit in the middle BUT still really interesting to learn about the Royal family and their lives. I am a huge fan of Matt Smith so I really only watched it for him. He was really good at Prince Philip. I felt really bad for the Queen to be honest. I mean she has the whole world on her shoulders and her husband only thinks of himself. I mean he knew what he was in store for when he met her and married her. If you've seen the show then you know what I'm talking about. Episode 5 when Philip tells the Queen before her coronation that she only cares about her people and looking good for the public then being with her husband who wants her to have his name but she has to have the people's name. It's a bit confusing, you have to watch the show to understand BUT I felt that Philip was being too hard on her. I don't want to read any further stuff on the royal family because I want to know what happens in the show BUT I think Philip is having an affair. I don't know he seems really determined to leave his wife and be with the "boys" mmm-hmm I'm sure those boys have boobs. lol The whole thing with Churchill and his vanity of him getting older and that painter was a bit boring. The part where he's talking about his daughter and the pond was sweet but a whole show about a painter painting his picture for his 80th birthday...umm that could have been done in 20 minutes not a whole hour. And at the end of the show the painting got burnt so what was the point of that? And the whole thing about Princess Margeant wanting to get married to that guy who was divorced...umm what was the big deal? I understand the whole thing about the royals can't marry someone who's been divorced or whatever BUT she's not in any authority in the family. Oh sure she's the Queen sister BUT really she can't rule the country IF she dies, it would go to her son Charles and then Will and so on and so forth. Don't get me started on that...Charles doesn't even want to be King, we know that from Princess Diana death...aww she was a beautiful flower. The show itself was really interesting and entertaining BUT a bit slow in parts. I think they could have done without some of the details like them going to Africa or Australia which I think was a fuller to take up space to get to the next storyline. I can't believe this show cost what 120 million to make...I can see how because of the costumes, jewels and the castles but dang why so much? Why not use costume jewelry we the viewer wouldn't know and it would be cheaper. The Crown ISN'T the real Royal family so why spend so much on a show that viewers only spend 8 bucks a month to view on their PS4...which is what I use. Matt is worth watching and the lady who plays the Queen was really good. Should you watch it...yeah why not. I mean if you can get pass some of the slow parts then yes it's worth a viewing.


                
I cannot explain why I like this show so much. I suppose it reaches into the unconscious mind in a way that is hard to describe - much like a painting of a place I've never been to and will never see in person - yet the art draws me in and makes me want to learn more. The story is about Queen Elizabeth II when she gets the throne - and as I watch I find it truly amazing that she has been the queen since the 1950's. The show has flawless sets, costumes, lights, acting, writing. Jarred Harris is perfect as Elizabeth's father - the flashback scenes with him are dynamic. The music is breathtaking - and for whatever reason - the show is oddly perfect. But I should ad - much of the suffering humankind has endured over the last five hundred years is in large part due to the greed and barbarism of the colonial rulers - and this family has profited in excessive privilege when so many have suffered. So for that - I dock this story points for glorifying them on a pedestal that is perhaps too high.
This is a very good production but Matt Smith as Prince Philip is very poor. I have never known a naval officer with such low self esteem that he gets about with head bowed and looking through his eyebrows! This was the look of Princess Diana. Philip is a much more confident man and not the miserable person depicted.


                
I delayed watching the show for a long time. But as I began watching it, it turned out to be one of the best shows I've seen. And if you are someone with no knowledge of Royal family, I would suggest you go for it. It will be an eye opener providing a great deal of understanding about how constitutional monarchy works. It was interesting yet saddening to see how Queen is often put in a difficult position where she has to choose her duty over her family. It raises every ounce of respect I have for Queen. The show thus displays emotions and politics together marvelously. The story is portrayed in a serious tone with no eye candies popping in between. No nudity or bold conversation, It is purely to display the life of Queen and people around her. Claire Foy played the The Queen so impeccably that for a while I had assumed her the real Queen considering the fact that they have a kind resemblance with each other. The dialogue delivery and acting skills are at their best. You'll only want more and more from them. Initially you might get bored in understanding the characters but as the plot builds, it gets interesting keeping you hitched for the next episode.
Seen the first 3 parts of the series. I have to admit to be somewhat disappointed. Camera beautiful, acting is nice although very reserved and hold back. Off course this is Royalty but it doesn't have to be boring and slow in a movie. (see: "Elisabeth" with Cate Blanchet; very dramatic and wonderful and yet Royalty ) What most annoyed me is the continuous music and at the most inappropriate moments when nothing really happens but the music implies otherwise. Rather confusing and it doesn't work for me.


                
Just started recently watching this amazing history themed series, even though I'm not that much into these kinds of series I have to say its brilliant. I was surprised to hear how much one episode is costing Neflix to do this, and asked myself is this why you cancelled two other brilliant Neflix originals ? I'm talking about Marco Polo and Sense8. Netflix reason of cancelling these was that they are to expensive, but you plan to make another 4 seasons of The Crown ... love how you think Netflix.


                
