Network is satire of the television industry weighed down by age and its heavily pompous dialogues.The script lacks coherence and a strong framework despite raising up a few interesting points and questions. Some story lines seem completely pointless though like the love story between Max and Diana that doesn't seem to fit with the rest of the plot.The actors are disappointing but their shallow, vapid and excessive caricatural characters served them badly.The bland and kind of slow direction emphasizes the dullness of the movie.


                
I recently saw the movie Network last night for the first time. This was based on the recommendations of the people here (@ IMDB) who mostly liked it.I did not like it. Although it got a good deal of critical acclaim and praise when it was released, I find too many faults in this picture.To say that the pacing of the movie is slow is an understatement. The characters seem to drag from scene to scene as if they are reluctant to move.The characters themselves, are wooden. They are filled with greed, ambition, and disgust. It almost like I am reading F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby". Even Peter Finch's rantings (While good at first) start to tire the viewer after a while.  It seems as if the director wants to make the ideas so clear to the viewer that he bludgeons the audience with the repeated dialogue... Subtly is not part of this movie.
I think that a good point that someone pointed out was that all the script is is a continuing set of monologues. People in this movie are not saying lines of dialogue they are saying commentaries. The social points and ideas are heavy handed.They are forced into the viewers face as if to say "This is what the media is."We as a culture have come to accept Media as a crazy circus. (Take the OJ trial for instance). We see it not only has a benevolent father (Tom Brokaw) but as a Crazy uncle (Jerry Springer) as well.  The (Heavy-Handed) social commentaries of this film fall on deaf ears in this jaded and media-saturated society.
Not only is the film not relevant today I would also argue that this piece is more about greed and ambition (Or some combination of the two) than the "evils" of the nightly news.


                
Personally I found it loud, superficial, silly, and ultimately irritating. The frenetic energy had a lot to do, apparently, not with enthusiasm, but the director hurrying it along to keep within budget. What was it all about? An exaggerated demonstration of how people are exploited by the media? They are, but not as blatantly as this. It was supposed to be overdone, of course, but for me that didn't save it. You can call it satire, or what you will, but it became a fantasy, not a drama. The trouble is that, if you want to make a film about exploitation, make it real. To spend two hours being hideously over the top at the top of your voice to make a simple point like that is unnecessary. It wasn't comedic either. It wasn't funny, it was just loud.Of course the acting was fine but the script dwelt too much on money, ratings, materialistic nonsense that personally was about as interesting as watching an accountant doing balance sheets, and myopically so. So, sorry, bored to death and wishing it was over. Which, thankfully, it was eventually. Peace at last.


                
Perhaps it was once considered great, but having just re-watched this movie, I did not enjoy it. Faye Dunaway's character is all that is wrong in tv and Hollywood. Driven, ambitious, a user. She'll sell out her country for a hit show. People could die because of the information shared on her show and that's fine with her, so long as she has a large share of the audience watching. And Ned Beatty's character, wow. No nations, only corporations. So clearly an explanation of today's globalism. Money to be made by the elite. Again if people die, oh well. Selfish, fowl and evil - not to mention the overuse of profanities.
