One thing you got in 70s cinema, as the 60s generation began to grow up and relaxations on content stopped being threatening and started being normal, was that the message movie went mainstream. Understandably, the eloquence of the message was always going to be more important than its real importance.Network was scripted by Paddy Chayefsky, who was less the angry young man of the anti-Vietnam generation, and more the grumpy middle-aged man of any and every generation. Appropriately enough the picture is a cynical and grouchy rant. It is preachy, hysterically so in places, and yet it is so pessimistic, offering no solutions to the problems it builds up to ridiculous proportions, that watching it is a rather draining experience. Its message is not as clever as it thinks it is, conflating a new technology with ongoing social problems, as short-sighted cynics have done for centuries. There is even a none-too-subtle dig at women who take on masculine roles, which just goes to show how bitter and reactionary Network is. And the idea of someone so obsessed with an idea it causes them orgasm prematurely is simple a sad mix of bad psychology and playground puerility.And yet, the 70s were also a time in which Hollywood was starting to regain some semblance of professionalism, after the unevenness of the previous decade. Network seems to have been made by a highly consistent production team. Sets and costumes are designed to perpetuate a pattern of regular black and white shapes arranged in rows. Not just ceiling lights or skyscraper windows, but filing cabinets, radiators all conform to this same style. Director Sidney Lumet, with his usual mode of subtle stylisation, even keeps it up in the few outdoor daytime, with the even framing of the tree-lined boulevard in the scene after Ruddy's funeral. Lumet also often has opposing shots of two actors with one in bright white and the other in black, so the switching back-and-forth between them is like a light flicking on and off.The 70s was also a time in which acting really started to successfully reconcile dramatic realism with theatrical exuberance, and here we have some great examples of both. William Holden, looking decidedly weary and craggy, seems to have entered the age which suits his style best, and he brings a layer of genuine humanity which Network sorely needs. Beatrice Straight gives a small yet impassioned performance as his wife, and though barely five minutes long her performance is among the more memorable. Another excellent bit performance is that of Ned Beatty, whose glorious hamming is the complete opposite of Straight's straightness, but nevertheless provides one of the most entertaining scenes of the whole picture. Of course any more than a few minutes of screen time and these two performances would unbalance the entire thing. Which brings us onto Peter Finch, who again is pure ham, but of the classic Charles Laughton variety, putting every ounce of strength he has into a compelling act. Had it not been Lumet's policy to ensure the real-world cinema screen never becomes the same as the film-world TV screen, we in the audience would be truly mesmerised by those mad prophet speeches.And thus Network delivers its message with great force and power. And of course the film has now gained a new raft of fans because this banal grumble about TV was supposedly "ahead of its time", except that TV never has been and never will be quite that way, because audiences – human beings – are not as stupid as Chayefsky thinks they are. In fact, the thing that Network probably best predicts is the wave of movies like Fight Club that didn't really say much but said it with an original twist and thus became cult hits. Which is a pity. And now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to watch the new series of X-Factor, which though lowbrow at least makes good entertainment.


                
I've seen this movie probably ten times since its been released and I have yet to understand what is so wonderful about it. Its not a matter of looking at it now and wondering if time has over taken it, it never worked for me. For me the film simply was "shocking" to seem clever even though it never really was.Certainly it hard to look at the film now and not think how psychic it was, but I think that was by accident, or perhaps it was the networks simply copying what they saw here and using it to boost their ratings.The story of a network which radically rethinks what its going to broadcast after its anchorman goes mad and decides to kill himself on camera is ripe with possibilities. The film makers certainly explore many of them, but at the same time each time I've watched it I've always been left feeling like I've missed something, or rather that the film is not as clever as it thinks it is.Try it, but don't feel stupid if you don't get it...I don't think there is anything to get.


                
This film has SEVERAL subliminal messages hidden within it. And it pretends to have a message, while it just embeds hate, and its subliminal messages. It tries to make you angry and violent, it's a movie about the insanity of the world, it cleverly adds to it.Scene after scene, little hidden messages, cleverly spoken words, the entire script is crafted to make you angry, and sexually aroused. A very over rated movie, and if you ever watch, read everything you see on screen carefully and listen carefully. A movie about the man, made by the man... yeah, I trust that lol.This entire movie is a clever ploy and is very manipulative. It's full of subliminal messages. Scene to scene, certain words used in the script, etc. Don't watch it, it's trying to put words into your subconsciousness. Conspiracy nuts will love it , and I'm some times one of them,but this movie doesn't truly set out to do what it claims to . It's made by THEM. It's full of subliminal messages...


                
I personally find difficult to enjoy a movie in wich there's not a main character. In "Network" I did not empathize with anyone, I did not hate anyone, I did not have that typical movie feeling of sharing thoughts or something with any character.
All the characters are shouting, yelling, screaming ALL the time, specially Peter Finch and Faye Dunaway. Also, all the characters have something like a speech (That they repeat several times) saying how the world works according to them. But that is too literal, a character doesn't necessarily need a speech saying what he thinks, he can show it with her actions and the audience will understand.
Maybe the plot of this movie was very original at the time but nowadays we all know the crazyness for ratings on TV. There are several much better things to watch about this subject: Black Mirror's episodes 'The Waldo Moment' (Wich is one of the worst for me) and Fifteen Millions Merits, Nightcrawler (With Jake Gyllenhaal being more crazy than Faye Dunaway's character), etc.
Finally, the movie is way too long. I was waiting to see "The end" since the first hour...
I think this one didn't survive the passing of time.Sorry for the possible mistakes, I use this as a training for my english writing. My first language it's spanish.


                
