NetworkPaddy Chayefsky; the writer, is the real protagonist in here, for his keen vision on creating a fiction in a white-collar office and still keeping it real and resembling towards the practicality is what helps the stunning craft sail off to the shore, safely. Sidney Lumet is in his A game and along with a beautiful cinematography and conservative editing, the 'directorial' objective is successfully achieved. Faye Dunaway and William Holden are convincingly good in their parallel role but the real game changer is Peter Finch as a supporting cast. Network is not your typical controversial informative feature, but is more brutal and dark that is depicted nicely with the help of a cunning script, stellar performances and brilliant execution on its side.


                
An interesting, ambitious, and somewhat entertaining satire of television, but one that pretty much fails for a number of reasons. It's difficult to believe almost everything that happens in it. Not one of the characters rings true. William Holden is as boring in 1976 as he was in 1955, and his cliché relationship with Faye Dunnaway is not at all believable, and not even that interesting. Their scenes together go on forever, and Holden's character carries the trite and obvious metaphor of Dunnaway as television personified, and their relationship as soap opera far further than necessary. Dunnaway herself puts an amazing amount of energy into her performance, and she didn't not deserve the Oscar she won, if you'll excuse my double negative. But her character really is only the metaphor that Holden attributes her, so what ground can she win with that? Beatrice Straight gives a performance that's most famous for being the shortest that ever won an Oscar, only three minutes. I didn't know who Beatrice Straight was, but it's obvious when she starts giving her big speech, so showy that she induced me to roll my eyes as many times as inches tall her Oscar is; that must be a record, too. Robert Duvall fares the best among the major cast members, although he hasn't much of a character either.
Peter Finch's performance is interesting, but his ranting gets old quick. While Howard Beale's first couple of ravings would undoubtedly raise people's interest (the `I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take this anymore' scene is as great as it is famous), but I doubt the television show that is developed for him, which apparently airs five days a week and runs for many months before the film ends, would ever attract an audience of any kind, except maybe a small bit who have a taste for public access television, which is what it seems like. I think people, especially the kind of disenfranchised, cynical people to whom Beale's show is supposed to appeal, would be much more critical and suspicious of a man who does his show opposite a psychic and in front of stained glass window.
People always refer to Network as `prophetic,' and then claim their proof is stuff like Jerry Springer, Hard Copy and reality television. As much as some of us may hate those kinds of television shows, only the deranged or stupid would ever believe that When Animals Attack is harmful to anybody other than those who are being attacked by animals. Does anybody really believe that anyone would ever air programs like The Ecumenical Liberation League or whatever that was? Some of the scenes focusing on this new show which the network is developing seem to want to be comedy, although the film is too heavy-seeming to ever succeed in being comic. Anyhow, in the world of reality, in which Holden's character keeps trying to convince Dunnaway and the film's audience that the story is really happening, the network's lawyers would have stopped them immediately. I will say that the film is prescient in only one way: Ned Beatty, who appears for one scene, has the most intriguing part, where he says, among other things:
"It is the international system of currency which determines the vitality of life on this planet. That is the natural order of things today. That is the atomic and subatomic and galactic structure of things today! And you have meddled with the primal forces of nature! And you will atone! Am I getting through to you, Mr. Beale? You get up on your little 21 inch screen and howl about America and democracy. There is no America. There is no democracy. There is only IBM and ITT, and AT&T, and DuPont, Dow, Union Carbide, and Exxon. Those are the nations of the world today." It comes out of right field in the film - well, kind of. The almighty dollar is the driving force of the film, and, the film realizes correctly, the world. But what Network does not understand is how television works to propagate this system, or perhaps how it would. It's too busy finding its subject, television, overtly evil when it misses the ways it can be more subtly evil. Not that I think all TV is evil or anything. Personally, I watch a lot of television and enjoy it immensely. I don't think it is particularly wicked, and I actually think that there's a lot of great art to be found on television (yes I do!). However, most of the evil I do see comes from the news. I wasn't around in 1976, so I can't say whether or not the news was as suspicious and creepy back then, but, if Network really had been prophetic, it would have at least got some of the satire right. 7/10.


                
Network is much more than just a film, about the madness of the TV industry. It is a film about the madness of the human being, the corruption of politics and the rape of the truth. Now I must admit that the film probably is not for everybody, because it isn't very thrilling and it might appear a tad slow to some. Personally I thought it was a very interesting film and I found myself comparing the depicted situations with the reality of today. It made me wonder how much of the films contents were regarded crazy in 1976, which I now (in 2004) found to be plausible or even true. If you like the plot summary on IMDb give this one a try. You might just get as interested as I did.6,75 out of 10 (with a 7 given upon voting)


                
Yesterday night i watched famous "Network" by Lumet. Well this is a historical movie i must say. But film has some limitation, if we consider in main way, not just as filmmakers objectives. The filmmakers objectives was a completion critic and satire of television world and television stuff people, as well as the usual citizens, who blindly believes to television illusion world.Great cinematography job, brilliant dialogs but... no highest point. The film ends very quickly, but end, even if we consider to the film as critical of TV, has no culmination in main way. I mean, the themes which movie raise up tells us, that filmmakers had in mind much more, than they said.Now about the screenplay limitation. Movie said that as first reduction Howard failed. So why nobody get the simple thing, that Howard was stressed while he delivering his speech, and they needed to save this psychological condition of him. Strange that why Howard was so lame, and has been influence, and he starting propaganda of business world, which he against, actually. I mean all that type of people like Howard, feels and knows the lie, and feels alien attempts to their space, and protest they to them.And why almost since first second of movie we see probability of "Something more", but didn't get it.Probably the filmmakers set themselves objective as only critical and satire of TV world, and nothing more, and all that political and business system critic it's just an accident due to fact of high masterpiece of movie. So, the objective of critical and satire TV is fully completed, and due to only this objective - this movie is true creation of art.


                
Our adult film course recently watched this film and discussed it at length afterwards. The initial reaction is to see Sidney Lumet's and Paddy Chayefsky's Network as a brilliant satire of television news and, more broadly, the television industry, and to that end there's some brilliant writing by Chayefsky. Chayefsky, and Lumet, have to tread lightly with their movie audience because the ultimate target of their merciless satire, whether intentionally or not, is the American public. The 1970s were perhaps the last decade where commercial mass broadcasting via the three networks almost monopolized television viewing in America, and these networks operating as commercial programmers targeted their programming at the mass audience, sometimes viewed as the lowest common denominator. If the ravings of Howard Beale, the newscaster on Network who's having a severe breakdown, earn a "40 share", i.e., high ratings, then that's because the public finds him interesting or amusing, and not that they're getting a balanced report of current events. The irony in this movie is that the networks during this period, and previously, pursued the "lowest common denominator" in their commercial programming but viewed their newscasts as akin to a public trust without a strong emphasis on profitability. The FCC licenses that conveyed to them slices of the public airwaves required some forms of public service.Among the highlights of the film for me were: (1) the brilliant speeches Chayefsky wrote for some of his characters, (2) the performance of Peter Finch as Howard Beale, the deranged "anchorman", who goes on the air "to make my witness" and delivers wild, rambling, incoherent speeches to his viewers followed by a physical collapse on the air, and the public loves him, so the programming dept. takes over the newscasts to ensure their high ratings (One might argue that Chayefsky has given Beale some of his disdain for television and his quasi-political paranoia but delivered in the form of a madman's ravings; others might argue that Beale, while clearly unhinged, is making observant points), (3) the amusing situation of radical Marxists, who've been given choice programming slots, arguing like capitalists over their "distribution rights", and (4) the production design of the revised newscasts, after they're controlled by the commercial programmers, that have all the trappings of a live variety show.Despite Chayefsky's brilliant script, in parts of the film, after a while the script seemed to me increasingly verbose and almost irritating in its deluge of words. In addition, although he wrote some brilliant speeches for his characters, I think he wrote too many of them, probably because (another criticism) he tried to make too many political points in one 2-hour film. For example, Arab petrodollars in the 1970s generated the same overwrought fears as Japanese capital in the 1980s and Chinese capital today. Finally, many reviewers on this site have called this film prescient. Well, I suppose the existence of reality TV and a Kardashian-oriented channel might suggest Network's prescience, but actually we're in an era of narrowcasting and not broadcasting as many of us have 500 or more cable channels from which to choose, and all of us have access to numerous offerings on YouTube. If you're so inclined, you're able to watch nature documentaries, ballet performances, classic films, European golf tournaments, biographies, and literate sitcoms, and you're not confined to watch what the mass audience liked in Network.


                
This biting satire of media gone mad features a terrific cast: Holden as an old-time news guy, Finch in his Oscar-winning role of the mad prophet of the airwaves, and especially Dunaway as a woman whose life ambition is "a 30 share and a 20 rating." Lumet is usually a reliable director but this is Chayefsky's film and he wants to make sure he is the center of attention. Although he offers some keen observations, Chayefsky spends too much time having his characters pontificating pretentiously. It just becomes tiresome after a while, and the plot just becomes too silly, even for a satire. What's more, the relationship between Holden and Dunaway is never believable.


                
I know it's very controversial to actually want a classic film to be remade and, although 1976's 'Network' still holds up in today's world, the problem with social commentary is that it only applies to the time period it was written about. Now, it does feel a little dated and you could almost see the same film being rewritten with social media (for example) being the central theme, rather than a big cable news network.In 'Network' a news anchorman Howard Beale (Peter Finch) has, what could be described as a 'nervous breakdown' live on air and he ends up spouting off 'anti-establishment' rhetoric which went against the powers in control of the organisation. Instead of firing him (which they nearly did!) they decide to 'use' him and give him his own on-air 'soapbox' in an attempt to keep their enemies closer and, if possible, control him.The other two central characters are played by Faye Dunaway as heartless corporate executive Diana Christensen and a slightly more torn corporate executive played by William Holden, as Max Schumacher. Dunaway is possibly far more memorable as the 'evil' one of the pair, but each have a role to play as they offer both sides of the moral aspect of their actions concerning what to do with their 'pawn' Howard Beale.The film is pretty standard when it comes to direction. There's no real neat camera tricks used that make the film stand out and possibly the editing is the only thing that bothered me. The film is quite long and it does tend to drag in places here and there. It's a bit up and down as you get one classic scene which will stay with you forever, followed by one that doesn't really go anywhere.If you're at all interested in the media and its recent (well, 1970s) history then you'll definitely enjoy this. There is definitely relevance here as to how one person can start trends in order to 'fight back against the powers that be' only to be corrupted completely by the very people he's trying to make a stand against. I definitely think that a modern remake may be interesting (if it was handled right) and social media would be the subject of how the masses are influenced. However, if the subject doesn't interest you then the performances should make it essential viewing for fans of good cinema.


                
An aging news anchor hears he's about to be fired. Having lost his mental balance, he informs his audience that he will shoot himself in live broadcast some days later. Surprise surprise, this nets him enormous popularity, making him the biggest hit the channel has seen in years. The greedy manager of the channel starts to exploit this for his own gains, giving the man his own show to rant and rave, mouth in froth, as much as he pleases. And the viewer numbers keep rising. But at what price?If it isn't clear already, this film is a satire. It takes a hard stance against the growing TV phenomenon of the 70s, peeling away layer after layer of filth, misinformation and bad habits.And I have to admit that it does it very eloquently. It's a wordy movie, famous for its long-winded speeches, in which no mercy is given, no prisoners are taken and no hits are pulled. These are some amazing monologues, delivered by some of the most talented actors of the decade. I salute such skill with the spoken word.Although, it is peculiar how little things have changed. This movie is over forty years old now, but even today the latest generation has been raised by television and media in general. They care about nothing, value nothing, know nothing, and can barely interact with real, living people. No one even plays outside anymore, can you believe it.Sound familiar?So, is the movie prophetic? Or is it that the older generation will always find something to complain about when the new generation won't do as they say, intent on doing things differently.Still, if you have to complain about the ruin of the next generation, at least this movie does it with style and panache. Kudos, I say. Kudos indeed.


                
"I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take this anymore!" is the famous clip from Network, but there's actually a lot more to the movie that doesn't often get remembered. Political science students join film students by studying this movie in college courses; I should know, since I majored in both subjects. In an era that eerily foreshadows the time period we're living through now, technology is the guide to living, and those in power know that if they control the media, they control the general public. Sure, there's no internet or cell phones in the movie, but the basic concept is the same as things stand today. If you're interested, hundreds of essays have been written about the social commentary of Network, and hundreds more have been written about its endurance through the decades.If you're not a political science student, there are parts of this movie that can be hard to watch, so even though you probably chuckle every time you see Peter Finch screaming in a soundbite during a classic movie montage at the Oscars, you should know this is a very heavy drama. The treatment of Peter's character is horrifying, and the feelings he evokes in the audience are probably responsible for his Oscar the following season. William Holden and Faye Dunaway share a pretty graphic sex scene, and while that isn't new for Faye, it feels a little embarrassing to watch a silver screen actor in a bedroom scene. Also, since Bill didn't take very good care of himself, sometimes it's sad to watch his last few movies since he doesn't look very healthy.Kiddy Warning: Obviously, you have control over your own children. However, due to violence and sex scenes, I wouldn't let my kids watch it.


                
Yes, this is the film.The movie which inspired thousands of malcontents to stick their heads out of the window, and scream:I'M AS MAD AS HELL, AND I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE THIS ANY MORE!!How inspiring.EmboldeningGalvanising.And then...The majority of these 'rebels' either grew up on benefits, or got a job working behind a fast food counter.And they were STILL fascinated by celebrity gossip, fluff stories, gory murders on their local news...Oh, well...It's gonna take more than ONE movie to bring down the 'system'So, don't lose heart, friends.As for the film behind the movement, it's as cynical and scathing as you'd expect about our media obsessed culture, with brilliant performances all round... But especially from Peter Finch as the 'Mad Prophet' newsreader. A lot of people have been influenced by his elongated rants, little realising that these are the ravings of a very sick man. He should have been treated in a hospital... Not wheeled out in front of a baying crowd, to be shamed and exploited.If you ever wanted to know ANYTHING about the way TV works in the USA, from the endless battle for ratings whatever the cost, to the unspoken perception between producers that viewers are morons, you could learn a lot from watching Network. It may be nearly 40 years old now, but it's brilliant dissection of the intellectually bankrupt society a lot of us choose to worship is now more potent than ever. Truly, one for the ages. 7/10


                
"Network" is a drama movie in which we watch a television network that do whatever it wants in order to have the biggest profit. One of the things that it does is to exploit a former anchorman who has some family problems and he is not at his best.I liked this movie because even though it's an old movie it represents and shows us the reality of today. All the people are watching TV, only a few of them reading newspaper and even fewer reading books. Also this movie shows us how TV influences people and how it changes the way people think about plenty of things and subjects. The direction of Sidney Lumet was really good. I liked very much the interpretation of William Holden who played as Max Schumacher, another good interpretations made by Robert Duvall and Faye Dunaway, but the best interpretation I believe that belongs to Peter Finch who played as Howard Beale and he was simply outstanding.Finally I believe that "Network" is a great movie to watch and I believe that is a must see movie for everyone because it shows the future and from this we can learn many things and fix much more. I also have to say that with this movie you will reconsider many of your opinions and you will change the way you watch the information that are coming from TV.


                
NETWORK 1976 DIRECTED BY SIDNEY LUMET STARRING WILLIAM HOLDING, FAYE DUNAWAY, AND PETER FINCHSynopsis: "Network" sets out to do to television what "Sunset Boulevard" did to Hollywood--it attempts to see through the illusion. Notice how I use the word "attempts"; whereas "Sunset Boulevard" blows the audience away, "Network" simply runs out of breath. This film is a sad yet satirical tale of the television industry, and more importantly the psychotic rantings of Howard Beale (Finch). Howard is a successful news anchor who at the end of his career approaches insanity; however, his mad monologues ("I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!") become a hit with audiences. The network at first wishes to pull him off the air as he is rather obscene, but not if Director of Programming, Diana Christensen has anything to do with it! The icy yet alluring director played by Dunaway knows that this raving lunatic will be TV's next big thing, and therefore, that's right you guessed it, exploits him! Countless characters are dragged into the mix, especially Max, who is Beale's old friend and boss. Max is actually quite a wretched character if you ask me: he cheats on his wife with Diana, complains about Beale's exploitation but refuses to act, and ultimately pretends to be some kind of martyr of television. At first I didn't see any reason to have him in the film except to keep us in fresh supply of preachy monologues, but towards the end I began to see his importance. Max compares Diana to being the embodiment of television, which he himself has been lured into. Hence Max becomes a vehicle of symbolism: he is the fool sucked in and spit out by the "boob" tube. Max is attracted to Diana's beauty but soon comes to realize that she is nothing but a shell; her heart might as well be a Nielsen ratings guide (There's a great scene of the two of them having sex yet all the while she rambles about next season's programming). William Holding does a good job with Max, and I commend him for that; however that doesn't change the fact that Max not only bores me with his consistent babblings but also disgusts me with his poor moral figure. Max goes back to his wife in the end although we never do see them reconcile (and hopefully they don't--Max should be kicked to the curb). Meanwhile Beale has an encounter with the head of the board of directors, and we get to hear the crazy-ass executive gives us a five minute schpeel about world politics and business. That kind of talk could drive anyone crazy, so you can imagine what it does to Beale. Alas, we are at the end of the film, which is the most ridiculous part: somebody is killed on national television. The reasons for the murder make some sense, but those who organize the execution are so devoid of emotion and empathy that it is beyond over the top. I suppose that is the problem with a lot of this film: it is too much. The consistent monologues make it preachy and the social commentaries and multiple story lines make it convoluted. The largest problem with "Network" is that it bounces all over the place. Some parts are really good and other parts are just plain annoying (especially the back-to-back speeches). This film has good intents but can't quite execute them properly. It is trying to show us television for what it really is: an illusion. We are constantly being sucked in by its beautiful lure just as Max was seduced by Diana, and also like Max, we will soon realize that the glitz and glam is only a coating to television's cold and empty core. "Network" is supposed to be a warning against television, but it becomes so busy tackling every other social issue that it looses sight of its original intent. When I watch a film I want it to remain consistent without it consistently preaching to me--"Network" does the opposite. I enjoyed the film, but in the end I thought it was a jumbled mess instead of the biting commentary it could have been. I give "Network": 3 out of 5 stars.NOTE: 1/5 stars = bad 2/5 stars = OK 3/5 stars = good 4/5 stars = great 5/5 stars = classic
i have to say i didn't care for this, and it's not because i get off on seeking out supposedly great movies and complaining about them. usually i agree with critical acclaim. in this case i think the films is hugely overrated. the screenplay, while intelligent, is nothing but a string of well-written angry monologues. i have only so much patience for this in a linear movie. the story is not meant to be realistic. the satire is cartoonish and absurd if you think too hard about it, and i'm guessing my qualms with the style of storytelling weren't helped along by the fact that i didn't believe the story (satire or not).so what it ends up being is a scathing look at the way they made TV shows back before i was born, and could not yet have made the decision to not watch TV shows anyway. to the 20 and under crowd, i don't think this movie has anything to offer you, despite the critical BJs it receives in this and so many other forums.


                
Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is an aging declining UBS news anchor. Longtime friend/boss Max Schumacher (William Holden) tells him that he's going to be replaced. Beale goes on the air to announce that he will commit suicide on the next Tuesday broadcast. Meanwhile programmer Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) develops a reality show with Ecumenical Liberation Army terrorists who film their own bank robbery. Executive Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) has the news division on the chopping block. Schumacher allows Beale to go on one more time to say goodbye, but he goes on a tirade which cause the ratings to spike. Beale catches the eye of Diana Christensen and she convinces Hackett to keep him on the air. Diana starts to have an affair with Schumacher.It's a funny satire at the time. It's more of a funny but sad reality of TV nowadays. What is over the top satire from the mind of writer Paddy Chayefsky is now too close to the truth. The fact that it's so real diminishes the comedy. It's a little sad that the stupidity has become common place. Director Sidney Lumet does this comedy straight and allows the material to shine on its own. I also find the second half too convoluted and too unreal. All the Howard Beale Show stuff is too weird with a very uncomfortable ending. I just can't see why people would watch his show. And ending the movie that way is really unfunny.


                
A TV anchor is thrown out of the job. He slams the network in his last show which apparently becomes a hit. The network hires the anchor and uses the incident and his eccentric behavior to increase their TRP ratings. Over all the story is about dehumanization of a common man and herd mentality.'Network' is an idea based film. Lots of things are interesting but film lacks the element of surprise. Characters are very stale and predictable. Film assumes that everyone is bad and deranged. Although some of the scenes are nice and direction is good film doesn't say much. May be the reason is that we already know that for our society everything is just 'Success' and 'Failure' and so it really didn't amuse me that much. Duration of the film is a little longer than required. It could have been squeezed to 85-90 minutes easily. Corporate meeting scenes are longish and are just too stale. It would have been much better to make a comedy based on this idea rather than a serious satire. For example 'The Truman Show' worked really well with all the surprises and little humor. 'Network' doesn't work because it says something which is an accepted truth. watch first 20 minutes if you have to watch it. 7/10.
I make my living off the evening news/ Just give me something, something I can use/ People love it when you lose/ They love dirty laundryWell I could have been an actor, but I wound up here/ I just have to look good, I don't have to be clear/ Come and whisper in my ear/ Give me dirty laundryThe Don Henley song Dirty Laundry, from which those lyrics were taken, is a vicious indictment of the state of television news in the United States. Its cinematic equivalent is Network, one of the highlights in the distinguished career of Sidney Lumet - but in this case, the target is more the relentless pursuit of ratings by the networks.While the focus is originally a news programme, it could have been almost anything. The original purpose of the show simply vanishes, an inconvenient detail discarded by the station, safe in the knowledge that the FCC is a toothless tiger. What brings about the change is the mental and nervous breakdown that befalls news anchorman Howard Beale - a role played to perfection by Peter Finch, for which he deservedly won a Best Actor Oscar.The sick man is shamelessly manipulated by Faye Dunaway and Robert Duvall, against the wishes of William Holden, seemingly Finch's only real friend. All these give virtuoso performances - Dunaway in particular stands out for portraying a woman apparently devoid of human feelings at the office, but capable of love outside it.For all the excellent acting - not forgetting Ned Beatty's towering monologue, for which he also received an Academy nomination - this film isn't perfect. My principal complaint is that it feels excessively long, and at times too sprawling and unfocussed for its own good. The ending also somehow doesn't ring true; while the TV execs have been portrayed as money-grubbing scum, capable of almost any excess (including giving air time to terrorists) in search of another point on the ratings, the notion that they are capable of ordering the cold-blooded murder of someone seems too far-fetched.Those points aside, this is an excellent film. Well worth watching.


                
This movie takes its mission very seriously and tries to its best to give the message that is in director's mind. The playing is little bit exaggerated which might be required to give the picture of evil business, media. Cause, most of us know very well how the things are going on in a very competitive and cruel environment of working environment. So, actually, as in the other movies of this director, the players' performances are very good in order to convey the serious messages to the audience. Apart from media, the movie makes serious criticism of the capitalist system under which we are living with inequality and injustice.


                
...And ultimately disappointing. What starts out as a great premise it's not carried to it's maximum consequences. The dialogue is quite frequently heavy handed, and the affair between William Holden and Faye Dunaway it is not very realistic. Some of Dunaway's and Holden's scenes are completely unrealistic, c'mon people just don't talk that way. Here , characters are just tools for the overall message of the screenwriter.However Peter Finch' famous scream "I'm mad as hell and I can't take it anymore!" and hundreds of people screaming out of their windows will stay with you forever. Overall it's an interesting film. But it is flawed because it's radical ideas are not carried along all the way. Maybe its a product of its time. But in todays world, many aspects are dated. Natural Born Killers dealt with similar television issues in a more effective and radical way.


                
"Network" is directed by Sidney Lumet, who's known for making deep, moving dramas with well-written stories, but doesn't contribute much style to his direction.  The film often plays out like a stage play, driven mainly by dialogue and monologues.  Don't get me wrong, there is some very good, witty dialogue and monologues, including one which occurs in the scene where William Holden breaks up with Faye Dunaway, who he loves deeply, yet can't share much intimacy, because her life is trivialized by the network she has worked for so many years and caused her to become a slave to the airways. But the dialogue drags down the pace, and so does the overlength. 
The acting is the best incentive to check out this slightly overrated satire.  William Holden, who I haven't seen previous to this movie, delivered a fine, subtle performance.  Peter Finch is of course the cream of the crop.  I don't know much about Finch, so I checked out his biography before submitting this comment.  It was sad to find out that he died a year after the film's release and months before he was awarded an Oscar for his performance.  In the movie, he plays a hyper, overworked individual who gets so wound up he sometimes passes out from exhaustion.  I thought that was just part of his character.  Well, Finch gave a memorable performance in which he shouted out his trademark line "I'm mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take this anymore!!!!"  Faye Dunaway is beautiful and highly convincing in a colorful role as a TV exec who will do absolutely anything to get close to a 50 share in the Nielsen ratings.  Robert Duvall is also great.  It's funny to see that even thirty years ago he had hardly a shred of hair on his scalp.  I would recommend "Network," though not highly.  I probably won't watch it on repeat viewings, it's not a very entertaining movie to watch, but it's well-written and nicely satirizes the television industry without being too overstated.  My score:  7 (out of 10)


                
'Network' was considered quite outrageous when it first came out, and it still has a lot to offer. The performances are uniformly top-notch, and Peter Finch deservedly won an Oscar posthumously for a TV news anchor gone over the edge. Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay is rich with pungent, biting dialogue (even if real people don't talk that way). It is funny and depressing and full of quotable lines. Almost everyone knows the line, "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!" even if they don't know what movie it's from. Unfortunately, fine movie though it is, time has not been kind to 'Network' and it has become dated more noticeably and more rapidly than most films. The reason is simple: the fictional televised insanity it portrays pales in comparison to what has actually become the norm for real television. I daresay someone in their thirties watching 'Network' for the first time might very well wonder what all the fuss was about. A soothsayer or a psychic on a network TV show? So what? Okay, granted it was supposed to be the evening news, but is it any more over-the-top than 24/7 coverage of who's going to end up with Anna Nicole Smith's kid? Or the media circus surrounding Britney Spears? The point is, the world is a very different place than it was just thirty-some-odd years ago when 'Network' came out. If you keep that in mind, you'll still find a wonderfully entertaining movie, one that still makes you think and will stick with you for a long time after you see it. Perenially last-place network UBS stumbles across a hit formula when its above-mentioned newsman is fired and says he's going to kill himself his last day on the air. He makes this declaration during the nightly newscast. Soon UBS' ratings are through the roof and they milk the situation for all it's worth. Howard Beale, the newsman, becomes a huge star (deciding, for the moment, not to kill himself after all) and UBS launches a series of what today would be called 'reality' shows- terrorists shown robbing banks, etc. William Holden plays a news producer at UBS who is from the 'old school'; he reminisces about Ed Murrow and disparages the new generation of television news people. Faye Dunaway's character is one of them. Robert Duvall plays one of the network execs and is hilariously hammy in a couple of scenes (quite a change of pace for him at the time.) He excitedly describes Beale's new show as "a big fat, big-titted hit!" And just as in the fictional TV show, Peter Finch pretty much steals the movie. His on-air "mad as hell" rant is deservedly famous, brilliantly written by Chayefsky and just as brilliantly performed by Finch. There are several other scenes though, less well-known, where Finch perfectly captures the character of Beale, who seems to slip in and out of madness; at times it comes across as a put-on, others it seems frightfully real. Even his throwaway lines are good- at one point, he enters the UBS building and says, "I must make my witness." "Sure thing, Mr. Beale," the doorman replies cheerfully. Paddy Chayefsky initially came to fame during the period of live television dramas in the 1950's, the same training ground that produced such writers as Rod Serling and Reginald Rose. His first big success was 'Marty,' later made into a hit film with Ernest Borgnine. Chayefsky's sharp ear for dialogue and a withering sense of humor distinguish his work, never more so than in his screenplay for 'Network.'
The first half was great. The cast was amazing, the directing was just right and the dialog was of course, captivating. Then a few things happened that just made me mad:1) Too many monologues! By William Holden's 5th monologue I was falling asleep. I didn't care about the human spirit anymore and I definitely didn't care about his ongoing metaphor of a television script with Faye Dunaway.2) The fact that Beatrice Straight won an Oscar for best supporting actress is dumbfounding. She beat out Piper Laurie for Carrie and Jodie Foster for The Taxi Driver. She was only on screen for 5 minutes! 3) This movie paints a horrible picture of business persons. I watched a documentary once in my Business Ethics class which was hosted by Ben Stein. It was about how the world views business people. They interviewed a class of high school students in Brooklyn. The students were asked, "If you were a business person, would you kill another human being if you knew it would be profitable for your business." The kids seemed sort of confused but replied with things like, "Well, only as a last resort," and, "Well, yeah. That's what businessmen do." To show a covert conspiracy of murder in a movie is one thing but to have it planned in the board room is another.
It's rare that I give a film an "8", and I was going to give this film that rating...until I got deeper into the film. To get that rating from me, the film usually has to be something that is truly different and done extremely well. Reviewer Vincent Canby wrote that this film is "outrageous...brilliantly, cruelly funny". Indeed it is remarkably different, while still being a mainstream film. I saw it at the theatre in 1976, and maybe once on television...so it was a while before I saw it again...recently on TCM.It's difficult to fault a single performance here. Faye Dunaway is great as the ratings-hungry producer. William Holden is wonderful as the aged news executive. Peter Finch is remarkable as the crazy old news anchor. Robert Duvall shows his skills as a new-wave executive trying to life a network out of the doldrums. It's interesting to note that Walter Cronkite's daughter appears as a Patty Hearst figure! One of the best scenes in the film is one that probably most people don't remember -- where Holden tells his wife (Beatrice Straight) that he is having an affair with Faye Dunaway. Straight is magnificent. Ironically, she won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for this role -- the shortest acting performance in a film to do so -- for a part that lasted only five minutes and forty seconds! Another remarkable scene in the film is Ned Beatty's rant as the highest executive of the network. And Howard Beal thinks he heard God! But the film does have some shortcomings, in my view. First, where is even a single character to like and respect? How many of us really want to watch a nearly 60 year old William Holden have sex with a yellow-toothed Faye Dunaway, and learn that he suffers from premature ejaculation (and BTW, I'm in my 60s, so I can say that!)? Does the part of the plot about a Symbionese Liberation Army-like organization make this film seem unnecessarily dated? And what does that part of the plot really have to do with Howard Beal going nuts? And, to me, its biggest shortcoming is its ending. All along the film has been a psychological drama. Then, to take away declining ratings, they suddenly decide to have Beal shot to death on the air. The rest of the film I could almost believe...but not that ending. And then we never learn what happened to the network executives or old man William Holden. Nope. It ended like they simply ran out of time and couldn't devise a better ending.Looking at this film now, some 35 years after its release, it is still a wonderful film, but its topicality in 1976 gives it a somewhat dated feel now. So my "8" dropped to my more normal "7". Still worth a place on many DVD shelves.
NETWORK is very much a 1970s production . This is in no way a negative criticism in itself but does cause the problem that when viewed today it seems somewhat dated . A news anchor threatens to commit suicide live on air ? Sorry to sound unsympathetic but we all have our favourite compelling moments of real news stories . Who would have believed in 1976 that we'd be able to watch in the future a real life TV show where a journalist sets up a sting operation where pederasts come to visit a young teen only to get arrested by the local police . When you've got Chis Hansen confronting predators with razor sharp put downs and sardonic comments fictional satire becomes a very poor second to laugh out loud reality That said it''s always interesting to see a film produced from " The New Hollywood " era of American cinema . Director Sidney Lumet had been directing films almost 20 years before he made this but he's best remembered for his 70s films like THE ANDERSON TAPES , SERPICO and DOG DAY AFTERNOON , . Interesting too that these films all contain actors who burst on to the scene during The New Hollywood era and he continues this trend by casting Faye Dunaway and Robert Duvall . He also has a sharp ear for multilayerd sound editing which is something he shares in common with another director associated with New Hollywood namely Robert Altman All in all NETWORK is by no means a bad film just one that hasn't dated well in relation to the work of the " movie brats " of that era TAXI DRIVER , JAWS and APOCALYPSE NOW were absolute landmark movies and still remain compelling movies within their own right . Unfortunately despite its strengths NETWORK hasn't since it chronicles its time to the detail . Does anyone remember last weeks liberation army ? No ? I rest my case


                
this is a pretty good movie,all things considered.the acting was really good,as was the writing,there is some great dialogue here.i think the movie could have been a bit shorter.i also found it kinda bleak.the whole idea that we only know what big conglomerates that own the media,specifically TV news,want us to know.since this movie was mad In 1976,it was certainly ahead of its time,in that viewpoint.whether all that is true or not,i don't know.i do know that i never watch TV news or read news in the paper,mostly because it's all stuff.as for this movie,it is certainly very thought provoking and brings up interesting issues.based on that,and the acting and writing,i give Network a 7/10.


                
Network, is about a TV newscaster named Howard Beale, who is going to be fired from the news show because of low ratings. He then says on public TV that he is going to kill himself. The people at the network get very worried but then some of the big executives find out that it got them a lot of ratings so they plan to give him a regular show where he can rant and rave. Soon they are exploiting him and the audience loves it. One of the network workers named Max Schumacher, is very against this but is soon fired and a woman he is seeing from the company named Diana Christensen, seems to want it to continue so the cash will flow in. Winner of The Oscar for Best Actor In A Leading Role (Peter Finch, who plays Howard Beale), Best Actress In A Leading Role (Faye Dunaway, who plays Diana Christensen), Best Actress In A Supporting Role (Beatrice Straight, who plays Max's wife) and Best Screenplay Written Directly For The Screen at The Academy Awards, The BAFTA Film Award for Best Actor at The BAFTA Awards, The David Award for Best Foreign Actress (Faye Dunaway) at The David Di Donatello Awards, The Golden Globe Award for Best Director (Sidney Lumet), Best Actor In A Drama, Best Actress In A Drama (Faye Dunaway) and Best Screenplay at The Golden Globes, The LAFCA Award for Best Director, Best Picture and Best Screenplay at The Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards, The NYFCC Award for Best Screenplay at The New York Film Critics Circle Awards, The PGA Hall Of Fame Motion Pictures Award at The PGA Golden Laurel Awards and The WGA Award for Best Drama Written Directly For The Screen at The Writers Guild Of America. Network, has good direction, a good script, good performances from everybody involved, good original music, good cinematography and good film editing. Network, is an interesting film with a sharp and biting edge to it and it is a pretty good satire and in some ways is ahead of it's time and these days we can see how it really relates to the TV we watch. The film was also compelling and well made and I liked the message and what the film had to say. The film is considered a masterpiece by some critics and as mentioned above it has won a lot of awards. I didn't think this film was a masterpiece as some people did but I still thought it was an interesting film with a good sharp message.


                
