This is a beautifully animated series format derived from the characters of the philosophically oriented movie 'Ghost in the Shell'. The animation is closer to the original concepts for the manga and adds amazingly gorgeous music to produce a show that is an instant draw. The characters draw some of the aspects familiar in the movie... Motoko's commitment to her job, Batou's casual-tough guy attitude, etc... though it adds some surprisingly refreshing characters like the blue child-like mini tanks Section 9 rides around in so much.The same philosophical elements of the movie -consciousness in a cyber-oriented world- are present, but definitely take a back seat to plots focused on political wranglings, terrorism, and general lawlessness. The series seems to be more "all in a days work" themed than the cerebral current of the first film.Overall I highly recommend this series to all fans, though hope they watch the movies as well.


                
Top notch! solid animation, catchy music. Great action. But above all intriguing characters and stories that make you think... Has a depth that no single movie can achive, the series format is used to its full potential. The stories treat issues of the future that are becomeing a reality, AI, cyborgs, technology acheveing more and mor of the impossible. But it is also about life... this series goes much further than the movie in all aspects. The only problem I had was the silly looking outfit our heroine seems to prefer, but you get used to it. Anyhow, a must see! Average 10(10)


                
The interesting thing about this version of the Ghost in the Shell world is that the Section 9 team members often manage to get in a conversation about the philosophical implications of what's going on, even as things go haywire around them. Kinda weird from the standpoint of how you might expect a special ops team to act, but it really sells the idea of Section 9 as humane and ethical. Normal cyberpunk (anti)heroes -- the amoral, self-centered variety -- are the kinds of creeps Section 9 blows away every week, which is refreshing.To the above two posters: I fully understand your preference for the movie; it's a great story and a great work of art. A couple of the things you complain about, however (such as Kusanagi's provocative dress habits), aren't a case of dumbing-down for television, but actually straight out of the manga -- Kusanagi's having to strip nude to use her camouflage in the film actually seems like fanservice compared to the manga original, where the cloak seemed to be part of the team's battle dress, not built into the Major's skin. The robots (a different model called Fuchikoma in the manga) are, in my opinion, a nice counterpoint to the main plot: while Section 9 defends the people of Japan from manipulation of their "ghosts," they don't know quite what to make of these increasingly sentient robots. Fuchikoma/Tachikoma were part of Shirow's original vision, but were dropped from the film for technical reasons. It was nice seeing them on screen at last.


                
I was very skeptic about this show. Like most of the people I already watched and was a huge fan of the movies and its philosophical themes, so all the talking about this show being a CSI-like anime didn't give me a good felling. The different look and outfit of Major Motoko Kusanagi didn't help too much either.And indeed, the first three episodes were pretty boring and they have increased my fears about this show, mostly because the creators tried to put too much in a runtime of only twenty minutes. Fortunately, when the main plot was introduced everything changed and started to become better and better. After a seven episodes long ending of the first season my mind was blown of, and the second season was even better because it has almost none standalone episodes. All standalone episodes are nothing special except the ones who are about the past of some characters, and the 18th episode of the second season which is a f**king master-piece.The animation is amazing. Along with Cowboy Bebop, this show is one of the best animated ones ever, and even now after more than ten years it still looks like it was released today.I also recommend this show in English dub, although the Japanese dub is way better. The thing is this show is mostly "talk" than action. If you choose Japanese dub you will find yourself reading subtitles all the time and that can reflect your personal enjoyment.Stand Alone Complex is definitely not for little kids, not because it's violent or contains nudity, but because it's very intelligent and complicated and requires some knowledge of history and culture in general too be fully understand. This is not your usual police-detective show. This is something much much more.


                
I watched the entire series 1 and 2 whilst I was supposed to finish my thesis - nagging deadlines, raging teachers and what not could not dissuade me from watching this first, then finish my Master's degree - one has to set priorities! The series is brilliant for a number of reasons: 1. The animation. Admittedly not as brilliant as the movies, but I didn't expect that either: series work on a lower budget per minute of animation produced. Considering that, what they've achieved is just so magnificently well executed, it just took my breath away.2. The soundtrack. Both title tracks are sung by Origa, and by Jove, are those song 'hooks': even if you donlt care for anime or watching TV anyhow, these tracks glue you to the screen form the first second you hear them. Good job.3. The Plot & Philosophy. Even though I've seen series with a bit more 'driving' plots (these series being certain seasons of X-files, Millennium and Buffy the Vampire Slayer), the overarching polt is just amazing. I spent half my days googling all the hints, reading 'Catcher in the Rhye' and Baudrillard and more, just to make sure I wouldn't miss any possible hint or twist.4. Philosophy & the Future. Next to the philosophical underpinnings of the plot, there's also the technicological future the makers foresee. Whereas in the movies we got to see more of the development of 'individuality' under the advancements of technology, we get to see more of the development of 'society', harking back to the original manga-series a bit more. Here also the production team show their intellectual savvy. Although they saved the guest appearance for Donna Haraway for the movie 'Innocence', this series has 'Cyborg Manifesto' written all over it. But their vision goes even beyond these more airy abstract questions: the picture they paint of what the everyday details of future life would be like, are just so incredibly real and on target, it just blows your mind away.I truly believe that this series accurately describes what our future looks like - and every time I hear a news item stating that 'scientists have succeeded in linking this and this computer programme directly to the human brain' or 'more and more shops are opening up in Second Life' or whatever, I now constantly think: we're one step closer to Ghost in the Shell. So, even if you don't like anime, go see this. You'll see your own future.


                
The great writers at Production IG in Japan have done it again, not only have they made a great production in terms of storyline, and animation quality. They have even manage to give a in-depth view into a few of the major characters backgrounds (E.G. Motoko Kusanagi), and also how Public Security Section 9 was formed.As usual there are a few episodes which are stated as Complex, meaning that they fit together to form a large scenario, and Individual episodes, which are stand alone stories. The main feature of this sequel are the return of the ever lovable SPOILER! - Tachikomas - which have been fully restored and are now stated as active members of Public Security Section 9. For those who have not watch the 1st Gig or 1st Season or any of the Ghost In The Shell Movies, do not worry, you don't have to have watch either of these to enjoy this exciting 2nd installment of Ghost In The Shell Stand Alone Complex.Truly a must have or watched for any Ghost In The Shell, anime, Shirow Masamune or S-F Fan.
As a big fan of the original movie, I was quickly inclined to watch the series as soon as I heard it existed. The series is a beautiful work of art which gives unparallelled greatness in my books. The sophisticated in depth plots simply blow your mind. I often find my self picking up even more information that I missed watching after the third time watching it. The animation is wonderfully done throughout all episodes, combined with the incredible cases in which the characters divulge in. The intertwining plots create an amazingly enjoyable anime series, even after watching final episodes, has you contemplating on the theories and ideas incorporated within this spectacular mind candy that is Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex. To conclude this review, I'd give this must watch a 10/10 any day.


                
The original "Ghost in the Shell" (1995) is one of my all-time favorite movies, live-action or animated. It's undoubtedly one of my favorite pieces of Japanese animation (Anime'), and it's also one of my all-time favorite sci-fi movies. As well, the original Manga that inspired it (by series creator Shirow Masamune) is one of my favorite books of all time. I also appreciate the deep influence the Manga and film had on "The Matrix" (1999), which is another personal favorite film of mine and another all-time favorite sci-fi movie.With the Anime' series "Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex," which aired in America on Cartoon Network's late-night programming block Adult Swim, we get another taste of the world that Masamune breathed life into all those years ago. "Stand Alone Complex" appears to be somewhat of an expansion of the original "Ghost in the Shell" from 1995, since as I remember the movie (successfully) condensed a pretty hefty storyline into a single 82-minute feature. A lot of story and characters were left out of the movie entirely, so that it could instead focus on the main storyline of the original Manga.Here in "Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex," a lot of the story left out of "Ghost in the Shell" is fleshed out, and plus a wealth of new ideas, characters, and concepts are also explored. The series is set in 2030 A.D. in Japan, where Section 9, an elite government task force, investigates crime (both human and computer crimes), terrorism, and all other manner of evil wrong-doing that threatens public security in the country. Led by the tough-as-nails cyborg vixen Major Motoko Kusanagi, they engage all threats with a wicked vengeance. The central storyline details Section 9's investigation of the elusive Laughing Man, a notorious computer hacker who brings to mind memories of the elusive Puppet Master from the original 1995 movie.This is a great, thought-provoking series, like the movie and Manga series that inspired it. Much like its predecessors, "Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex" dives into a futuristic world where humans are very close to being not human at all. Many humans in this future, are enhanced, in some way or another, by machines, as a means of getting the upper hand in a world where rapid technological advancement is proceeding forward with little or no oversight. How long before flesh & blood will merely be a thing of the past? Can you still be considered human in an artificial body made out of plastic, metal, wiring, and other complex prosthetics? Will there be an ideological war fought between cyber-enhanced humans and militant "anti-cyberization" rebel forces? In some ways, that makes this show seem almost eerily prescient, and entirely possible. It's these sort of paranoid philosophical questions that makes this series such socially relevant science fiction. (James Cameron, are you reading this?)The animation here is great. Like the movie that pioneered the trend, it is a stunningly envisioned, seamless blend of traditional hand-drawn animation and computer-generated imagery (CGI). My guess is that the traditional hand-drawn animation and CGI mirrors the series' persistent theme of the melding of man and machine together. (A very interesting conflict, indeed.) And the exotic soundtrack music by Yoko Kanno is exceptional; it's both moody and atmospheric - it perfectly fits the show in every way possible."Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex" is a great Anime' show. It's fantastically animated and intriguingly philosophical in the presentation of its ideas and concepts; watchful viewers could also pick up a few references to the Ridley Scott-directed 1982 American sci-fi classic "Blade Runner," and perhaps even acclaimed American author William Gibson's seminal 1984 cyberpunk novel "Neuromancer," the latter of which is probably the single greatest source of inspiration for this whole setup. And Major Motoko Kusanagi has to be one of the most strikingly beautiful (if not THE most strikingly beautiful) cyborgs ever conceived for an animated format.10/10


                
If you enjoyed the film versions of Ghost in the Shell and are worried that a TV version will be an inferior product you shouldn't be, Stand Alone Complex is excellent, and as it takes place in an alternate time line to the films Major Motoko Kusanagi is once again leading the operational side of Section Nine.Each series has twenty six episodes, some following a main story line, others which which are self contained, some of these tell us about the characters' pasts. The series is lighter in tone than the film but still exciting when it needs to be. Some viewers might not be too keen on the addition of the Tachikoma, small blue tanks with cute voices, I too felt that way initially but grew to like them more and more as the series progressed. As this was made for television the Major keeps her clothes on far more than in the film, she does however wear a rather revealing costume in the first series.An exciting story well told is helped by really good animation accompanied by a great sound track. I really liked the characters, especially the Major, it was nice to get to know them better than the shorter film format allowed. I would certainly recommend this, not just to people who enjoyed the films but also to any fan of exciting science fiction.Don't switch off when the end credits start as after the credits for each episode there is a short "Tachikomatic Days" story, a little comedy sketch featuring the Tachikoma.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.


                
Unlike the popular movie of the same name that was released over five years prior "Ghost In the Shell:SAC" is what it is. It stands alone from the continuity of the first two "Ghost In the Shell" movies and establishes its own interpretation of the story and characters in an alternate continuity.The show was produced by Production I.G and lasted for two seasons with 26 episodes each. The story follows the alternate universe where Major Kusanagi never merged with the "Puppet Master" and Section 9 deals with cyber crime, terrorism and political intrigue thru out the course of two seasons.The story is very meticulously and well written by director/writer Kenji Kamiyama who creates a plausible depiction of 2030 where everyone is connected in the internet except for those who cant afford cyber implants or prosthetic bodies and terrorism has moved into the internet. The animation is stunning and mixes CG and 2D animation flawlessly. Yoko Kanno does the entire soundtrack music soundtrack and its one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard for an anime TV show.Voice acting is very top notch for both Japanese and English dubs. But I prefer the dub because of Mary Elizabeth McGlynn as Major Motoko Kusanagi.I feel that this is one of the best interpretations of "Ghost in the Shell" and an excellent cyberpunk anime TV series.


                
Like its predecessors, this series hits the high notes extremely well. Everything you love about the first two films is here with Motoko and the gang facing new threats in a world that's almost a mirror image of our present-day society. It's not hard to realize that technology in GITS: SAC may someday become a reality rapidly, but onto the series itself, as Roger Ebert once stated "it's unusual and challenging sci-fi aimed at smart audiences", that statement alone clearly describes it all. I must say though I enjoy the series, however the plot is a little confusing and complex but upon repeated viewings I appreciated it even more. Not too many anime series have that kind of depth and replay value which is why I'm not a huge fan of anime in the first place; this series grew on me and I'll be looking forward to seeing more of this highly engrossing cyberpunk universe that our heroes dwell in for years to come. Highly recommended if you like deep and thought-provoking high quality stories and art.


                
For those who are a fan of the 1997 anime/Manga Movie "Ghost In The Shell", they maybe shocked to know that the Stand Alone Complex series is NOT a sequel or alternate version of that storyline. Instead it is set in a alternate timeline. However it doesn't make this a must avoid anime spin off.The script and animation quality are the same standards as depicted in the 1997 anime/Manga movie. I personally find Stand Alone Complex has a more interesting and entertaining storyline than, that of the original movie. The main attractions in the series are the Tachikomas "Sential Tanks". I personally enjoyed the episodes, which featured these small "thinking" tanks, which possessed the personality of a small child! A true anime/manga classic in the making,superior to the original 1997 anime/manga movie.


                
It's been 15 years since the release of the anime series, I only got myself to watch it now. Got to say the production values, animation, voice over and plotting is still top class even now. The setting is about a 21st century society where cyberization and robots are common day features. Accordingly terrorism, blackmailing and other crime waves are more futuristic like hacking into people's brain to making clones and such. The series focuses on a group of detectives/counter terrorist who are elites in solving such crimes, one could say modern day FBI. Each and every episode is a gem, initially each episode seem to be a standalone case, it seemed the focus was to introduce us to the modern society, only by the end do we realized its all tied up to a mega case. The story is now only about showing great animation fight sequences is the case with other similar anime instead it makes you ponder over complex questions. The animation is top class, the fight sequences are still a treat to watch, from the conceptions, to the detailed sequence, to the smart follow through. The same can be said for the sound. The characters, each and every one have their own story to tell, while the star of the show is Major, the supporting cast is well developed. Another stand out figure is the enigmatic Laughing Man, even when you don't see his face he leaves a lasting impression. One of the best though out and executed anime I have come across.


                
GitS:SAC borrows a lot of the philosophical musings from the original film and manga, but it goes a long way into further developing this particular world and showing the various ways that technology interferes and redefines what is human. All this is explored both in the series' core "complex" episodes, as well as its "stand alone episodes", which show one different story at a time. If you are interested in non politically correct, thoughtful futurism, this is the show for you. It covers issues like AI, body augmentation, the roots of self-conscience, evolution and so on. I really like the fact that it also explores the political landscape of this not so distant future. Overall, a great experience.


                
Just a couple of things I thought were worth mentioning after reading the other comments. First of all, you have to remember that Kusanagi is a cyborg. Throughout the movies you as the viewer are constantly reminded that she feels a certain detachment from her body. She also takes getting shot up rather lightly. So with this in mind, I prefer to think of her body is more like clothing to her. It's not her real body after all. You almost don't notice how skimpy her wardrobe is if u can see it from this perspective. Secondly the movies do give u a much better understanding of the characters and scenario and are worth checking out before you watch the series. Just keep in mind that the movies and series are two directors different takes on the Manga by Masamune Shirow. Both the movies and series are beautifully constructed but as this is the comment area for Stand alone Complex that's what I'll rate. (by the way; bare with the 2nd gig. Closter towards the end it will have you nailed to the screen)


                
I first saw the movie and I liked it, not that much, but it was entertaining (I haven't read the manga, so I couldn't enjoy the movie like others did). People had told me that the manga was a lot better and that I'd probably enjoy the series much more.I don't read manga so I decided to check the series out. The first episodes were pretty good so I continued watching them and... by the time I was half way through, I couldn't stop watching them. The story was so well made that it had absorbed me in an addictive way.The music is actually pretty good too and... after purchasing the Special Edition, I have to say... the English Dub is horrible. Stay with the Japanese version with English subtitles, you'll enjoy it a lot better that way.In resume: a must see even for non anime fans, extremely addictive story and... stick with subtitles, the dubbing will kill the whole thing. (And I actually liked the fansubs better than the official subs, they were a lot more detailed and had nice explanations for very interesting things).


                
