This is probably one of the best situational comedies ever made and in my opinion few other television programs compare to it. It is hard to say what is so good about this little show as the main character is a rude prick, the story lines are rather simplistic, and the characters pretty much cardboard cut outs of class stereotypes (this is a British show after all), but each episode is a nearly perfect choreographed dance of escalating frustration with an impeccable touch of absurdity.From brick walls appearing in doorways to mishaps during fire drills, from guests dying overnight to getting the right food for a gourmet, from class issues to just plain old mayhem this show has got it all. It is all in a meager 12 episodes, but that is what makes each episode absolutely priceless with hardly a dull moment. A classic in every sense of the word. 10/10 Not rated, suitable for everyone.


                
This is pure comedy. It is genius. It is hilarity that transcends the boundary of comedy. Fawlty Towers is the kind of comedy that has you on the floor gasping for air in a puddle of your own tears. John Cleese has created one of the defining characters of comedy in Basil Fawlty. Manuel Sachs is superb as Manuel, the confused waiter from Barcelona. Prunella Scales is brilliant as the tyrannical wife. Connie Booth is very good as Polly, the hassled waitress. Put it all together inside a small hotel in Torquay and you get one of the greatest, most alluring comedies ever to grace the screen. The only bad thing about Fawlty Towers is that they didn't make more.Fawlty Towers will always be tearfully, heart stoppingly, deadly, and disasterously funny.


                
It shames me to have to admit that I missed the first three 'Fawlty Towers' episodes on its original run as I was hooked on the I.T.V. series 'Beryl's Lot' ( starring Carmel McSharry ). My first encounter with Basil was Episode Four - 'The Hotel Inspectors'. Even now I can feel the pain in my side from laughing too hard. I spent the next few days telling everyone how great this show was. 'Fawlty Towers' takes place in a hotel in Torquay, run by the world's rudest man - Basil Fawlty ( John Cleese ) and his henpecking wife Sybil ( Prunella Scales ) who has a laugh like someone machine-gunning a seal. The permanently overworked staff includes American art student Polly Shearman ( Connie Booth, then Cleese's wife ), Cockney chef Terry ( the late Terry Hall ) and, of course, Manuel ( Andrew Sachs ), a Spanish waiter whose command of the English language leaves a lot to be desired. Among the regular guests are the senile Major Gowen ( Ballard Berkeley ). What gives the show much of its humour is that Basil is snobbish and quick-tempered, barely disguising his contempt for the guests.'Fawlty' was based on the late Donald Sinclair, owner of 'The Gleneagles' in Torquay. He was so rude that the Python cast, there on a location shoot, moved out! Cleese remembered him when writing for the L.W.T. sitcom 'Doctor At Large'. The episode 'No Ill Feeling!' was a success and it was clear that there was a series based around its setting and characters.The show debuted on B.B.C.-2 less than a year after the final season of 'Monty Python'. It was not an immediate hit. Repeats came to the rescue. When it moved over to B.B.C.-1 on Sunday evenings a year later, ratings skyrocketed. It got off to a fantastic start with 'A Touch Of Class' in which Basil is taken in by a confidence trickster ( Michael Gwynn ). Other classic episodes include 'The Hotel Inspectors' ( boasting a marvellous guest performance from Bernard Cribbins ), 'Gourmet Night' in which Basil tries to make the hotel famous for its cooking, and, memorably, 'The Germans' with a concussed Basil offending a party of Germans by making constant references to the war.It was a triumph, yet a second season did not appear until 1979. The first was a tough act to follow, but the second managed it. Memorable episodes include 'Communication Problems' with Joan Sanderson as a fussy old woman who uses her deafness to get her own way, 'Waldorf Salad' in which a loud American ( Bruce Boa ) tries to bribe Basil into keeping the chef working, 'The Kipper & The Corpse' has Basil trying to conceal the fact one of the guests has died, and the final edition - 'Basil The Rat' - involves the staff hunting for an escaped rodent before a Health Inspector is due to call.It goes without saying that 'Fawlty Towers' is the most perfectly realised British sitcom of them all. Excellent scripts superbly performed by a top-notch cast. It has not diminished with the passage of time.
Of all you'll ever see on the telly or the silver screen this has got to be the best. If you don't own this series you'll regret it - for if you rent it you'll be hard pressed to return it and everything you rent will be downhill afterwards.Donald Sinclair goes into history as the most brilliantly rude hotelier ever and John Cleese and then spouse Connie Booth go into history as the best sitcom writer duo ever. The teleplays were meticulously written and rewritten and the acting is better than superb.This series has been voted best television series of all time so many times now it's not funny. Odds are you will never laugh as hard as you do when you see this. And you won't tire of it quickly either.


                
An interesting thought about the famous Basil Fawlty occurs to me on reflection - if his dear wife Sybil ("my little nest of vipers"), his put-upon chambermaid/receptionist/waitress Polly and his unfortunate Spanish waiter Manuel all died tomorrow, he'd never be able to cope running the hotel. He'd internally explode or offend the guests just that little bit too much, and that would be the end of Fawlty Towers.If Basil died, on the other hand, I don't think Sybil, Manuel and Polly would worry at all about carrying on without him. Although he's a hotelier, Mr. Fawlty clearly doesn't like people at all. He exploits the fact that the slightly deaf and constantly complaining Mrs. Richards has her hearing aid switched off to ask, "Is this a piece of your brain?". Obviously sexually repressed, Basil can't come to terms with the liberated 1970s that he lives in. He goes out of his way to avoid giving an unmarried couple a double room, then spends the night "checking the walls" for woodworm and having misunderstandings with a pretty Australian guest, leading Sybil to respond with "If you're going to grope a girl, have the gallantry to stay in the room with her while you're doing it!". With lines like this, you can see why it took Connie Booth and John Cleese weeks to write each episode. Basil himself is an interesting physical character. I think it particularly helps that John Cleese is well over six feet in height, because when Basil gets in a rage he seems trapped in his own body. Anyone else would be throwing things and flailing their arms about and screaming, but Basil, being emotionally (and certainly sexually) repressed, doesn't seem to know how to handle his anger and his physical struggle is very funny to watch.There are a wonderful host of interesting characters for Basil to bounce off - a small guest named Mrs. Hall that he doesn't notice, a highly-strung ("Yes, he should be") teenager who demands salad cream instead of fresh mayonnaise and the priceless builder Mr. "lick o'paint" O'Reilly, as well as the better builder Mr. Stubbs ("That's a supporting wall! God help the floors above!"), the Major and the old ladies who seem to live in the hotel.If Basil Fawlty was still alive today (though I imagine he'd have long since expired of a heart attack or astronomically high blood pressure), I'm not sure if he'd have retired or if he'd be clinging on to his treasured establishment until he dropped down dead. I'd like to think that Sybil could outlive him - perhaps in a twist on Basil's reference to the film "How To Murder Your Wife" she'd have gone mad and killed him - so whether she'd be in prison or retired or mourning the loss of Basil, I can't tell but I hope she'd enjoy her retirement.


                
That John Cleese should attempt farce after the ground-breaking success of Python is testimony to both his bravery and to his comedic genius and that he should succeed so dazzlingly is damn near miraculous. Most Beeb shows were written by very experienced professional writers and Cleese and his partner Connie Booth (Polly) had no experience at all of this sort of show, so to succeed so amazingly is indeed, astonishing. This was voted the best British programme, of any sort, ever, in a poll conducted by the British Film Institute and voted for by Industry professionals. Better than the Attenboroughs, better than the great dramas and better than Python, amongst many others. No finer accolade could be attached to any show, anywhere, anytime.


                
Fawlty Towers is just flat out fantastic. What else is there to say? I mean, is there another comedy series as funny, as well acted, as frustrating, and as smart as Fawlty Towers? In my opinion, no! People say shows like Black Books, Seinfeld, Friends, Modern Family, The Office and The Big Bang Theory are the best sitcoms ever. Yes, many of these are great, but none of them, I repeat, none of them are as hysterical as Fawlty Towers! If you like John Cleese as an actor, or if you like British comedy, or if you like sitcoms in general, I can guarantee that you will love Fawlty Towers! I know this may sound like a bit of a rant, but, in my opinion it is the only way to convey how amazing Fawlty Towers really is!10/10


                
When i was young my parents showed me Fawlty towers and i must say i didn't really understand it. But then a couple of days ago I found the old videos and decided to put it on, and i couldn't stop laughing. John Cleese is a comic genius and all the actors play their roles superbly. Also before watching the videos i never knew how much my parents quoted fawlty towers, and its not had to see why when the script is so witty and original. I have to say though that the funniest episode is the Germans, where Mr. Fawlty gets a nasty bump on the head and has to go to hospital. When he gets back he discovers that a family of Germans are staying in the hotel which leads to some very funny results. 10/10


                
A few years ago someone boldly declared that John Cleese is not funny. What planet is she living on? John Cleese has the acrobatics of Jim Carey, Buster Keaton, and Roberto Benigni. Witness his goosestepping in front of the German guests. John Cleese has the fastest timing imaginable. Witness when it turns out that "the little crumpette" is really the guest's 76 years old mother. (P.S. - I noted that the guest and the older gentleman psychiatrist next door were real life father and son). Fawlty turns from scorn to politeness with complete ease and spontaneity. The jokes on the show are completely ridiculous and hilarious. Cleese plays Fawlty. He is an extremely unpolitically correct manager of a hotel in Torquay, England. Torquay (near Cornwall) is in the southwestern part of England. There are real palms trees at the ocean level. Fawlty is a nasty man, who says exactly how he feels. This is probably how most hotel workers feel after 15 years, but don't usually say how they feel outloud. Fawlty is supposed to represent the rural Tory mentality of the 1970s. There is a great supporting cast. Connie Booth, co-writer of the episodes, plays English enough to not realize that she is from Indianapolis, Indiana. Andrew Sachs plays a very convincing Spaniard. Of course, Fawlty treats Manuel like absolute dirt, representative of how lowly regarded EU workers are in England. The only fault of this show is that there were only 12 episodes. I would have loved to be rolling on the floor at many more episodes. Instead, I just roll on the floor when the Major says "you silly Moose".
this is a fantastic comedy, and probably the best ever. it is so good because only 12 episodes were ever made, and i think it would have lost some of its value if it had made more episodes. john cleese is in his finest element here, and some of his comments are fantastic ( eg is this a piece of your brain? and ah, so, you want to go to a chemist, ai!" prunella scales is also a very fine actor who manages to manage her dignity whilst her husband basil can never seem to get out of trouble. Manuel is also a highlight, but i think his character would have gotten very tedious if more episodes had been made.Polly also brings a lot to the table, and i like how she is portrayed as intelligent, breaking the dumb blonde stereotype.with respect to the guy from Boston who wrote a review, yes the characters are stereotyped, but you must remember that this was made in 1975! certainly now these sorts of characters have been overdone, but not back then ( this was when a movie about sharks was the best think since sliced bread). thinking retrospectively, i think the characters were perfect for the time they were cast.favorite episodes are definitely the episode where the chef gets drunk and basil has to go and get a duck from another restaurant, and of course the horse racing episode which is probably one of the funniest things i have ever seen on TV. their are countless references to both world wars and international relations in general which makes for very witty comedy ( yanks- see not friends or married with children!) an interesting point of note is that back in this time there is little on screen affection between the actors shown. for example, i don't remember scales and cleese kissing, in fact i only saw physical contact between them in one episode! contrast this to today where an average episode of say the o.c has at least two minutes of making out every episode.overall this is a great comedy that i would recommend to anyone to watch. 10/10
According to me, this is a perfect comedy. There is nothing which can be improved upon, whether it is the script, cast, props, editing, direction... anything at all! Everything works brilliantly! I caught ALL the episodes one Sunday on TV... Don't remember which channel, though! Suffice to say, I just sat in front of the TV, helpless with laughter! Now, I am desperately trying to find the complete set on DVD.John Cleese could not have been better as Basil Fawlty... I mean, he was born to play that role! Basil Fawlty has to be the most irritatingly funny character ever created. All the other characters are also very well cast, whether it is Andrew Sachs (Manuel), Prunella Scales (Sybil Fawlty), Connie Booth (Polly) or any of the others...If you haven't come across this, please rectify the situation and find it! Trust me, you will not regret it!


                
After have been using catch frases from the series during the last few years, i decided it was time to buy the whole series on DVD.As often it's only the highlights you remember, and the jokes tend to be a bit mote extreme as they are retold during the years. Never the less, the episodes still hold world class! It was fanaticly funny to see them all again and the jokes are fantastic! I admit that not all of them was as funny as i remember them, but to my suprice, some of them was even better. That might say something about my memory or sense of humor, or it might say something about the authors and actors extremely well done work.Anyways, these three DVD's including extras are well spent money and the interviews add some extra depth to the story. So go ahead and enjoy Fawlty Towers once more!


                
This is by far the best comedy I have ever seen. It simply does not age. John Cleese, Andrew Sachs as well as the rest of the cast are stellar. Cleese should have done some more comedy writing at this stage of his career because he is simply good at it! It is real fun to watch this stressed-out hotel manager in Torquay coping with the problems the world (his guests, his wife and his team) put upon him. I had some good laughs watching Monty Python's "Flying Circus", but this is John Cleese himself at his best. Honourable mention goes to Andrew Sachs as Manuel who still makes me fall from my sofa almost 40 years later. Oh yeah, and I DO remember this series anytime now I have to stay at a hotel. Some really come close to Fawlty Towers.


                
One of my all time favorite comedy series. I must have seen those at least ten times and still I would watch it again. I know almost every line out of my head. Every character in this show fits perfectly to make this British comedy an old time classic. Basil Fawlty (John Cleese) is absolutely brilliant as the super nervous hotel manager that always tries to get the upper class in his establishment. Riff-Raff is not for him. Sybil (Prunella Scales) his wife on the other hand just wants to run the hotel normally. Her bossy attitude towards her husband Basil is hilarious. Polly the maid (Connie Booth) looks like the most normal person in this series. Manuel (Andrew Sachs) drives Basil completely bonkers, he's from Barcelona and doesn't get anything that Basil is trying to explain to him. Those four run the show but the other characters are all funny as well. I like every episode but "The Germans" must be my favorite one. If you never watched this show then I can only highly recommend it. You don't know what you are missing.


                
Ask anyone what the best British comedy is, and this series will inevitably crop up before long. From the antics of Basil Fawlty to the hilarious mannerisms of the Major, British comedy has, despite the incompetence of the hotel, seldom been more at home than in Fawlty Towers. Consistently brilliant, there really is very little fault (if any) to be found across the two seasons.It is a sign of a classic when it withstands multiple viewings and is still hilarious, a feat that comedies rarely achieve. Fawlty Towers also has more memorable scenes and lines than several other, longer comedies have combined; it is easily quotable for anyone who has seen even a few episodes ('don't mention the war!', 'he put Basil in the soup?!', the Waldorf salad fiasco).In an interview from a few years back, John Cleese noted that they spent roughly six weeks on every single episode of the series. Clearly, it was well worth it, as every episode is comedic gold, and you have to appreciate the level of work that must have gone into making it what it is. Fawlty Towers has done much to achieve its status as one of the iconic British series. The best British sitcom ever to be produced, and maybe the best period.


                
Just ekes out 'The Young Ones' for best Brit TV comedy. (Sorry Rik.)This show kept the laughs coming fast and furious and never let up.Think about it for a second. Stressed out husband, nagging shrew of a wife, incompetent employees, family owned Inn, plots include health inspectors, overnight death, criminal hiding out...My point? Hardly very original. But that's the genius.Cleese and crew took these basic overused devices and turned them into a riot. No situation was left untouched. If you think about it still, it was just Basil Fawlty (Cleese, you knew that right?) constantly trying to cover up a gaffe only it leads to a bigger one. And so on and so forth.The frantic pacing and wild anarchy was perfect.Kudos go to Prunella Scales, Andrew Sachs, Connie Booth (Cleese's ex) and the Major for their excellent support.


                
Unlike many comedies which try to be topical, end up being very much of their time, and as a consequence don't age well, which certainly can't be said about this show, which stars John Cleese as Basil Fawlty, manager(along with his wife Sybil, played by Prunella Scales) of an English hotel, and the various staff and guest problems he would face.The comedy in this series built over the course of the 12 episodes, which would frequently end in Basil being humiliated in a predicament of his own making. Curious thing is how Fawlty isn't really a likable character, but a funny one, which was what John Cleese was going for.Highlights are Basil suffering a concussion, and his subsequent encounter with a group of German guests...or how a rat gets loose, and Basil's frantic attempts to deal with a crazy tenant hunting it with an Elephant gun... Priceless!


                
to me fawlty towers is one of the best comic sitcoms that england ever produced funny as hell warm simple although its a classic but believe me it will make you laugh and I mean a lot the cast is dynamic and john cleese is a master in the art of comedy shame it ended I will always keep watching these people and laugh to the way they run the hotel called fawlty towers wish I was a guest there. andrew sachs is brilliant with goofy impressions just to let you I used to own the series in VHS tapes then in dvds now i just got them in a remastered copy thats how much i like it . i know that there is a lot of Brit sitcoms but this one stands out high up there . thanks for reading.


                
I got curious when I saw the trailer for this TV series on my Blackadder DVD. Then, I decided to research the TV series and found some episodes of it. Well... I love Fawlty Towers! John Cleese(What an awesome actor!) stars as Basil Fawlty, a manic owner of a self-made hotel called Fawlty Towers. Poor Basil Fawlty is always bossed around by his wife, Sybil Fawlty(Prunella Scales) and tries to teach English to his waiter Manuel(Excellent job, Andrew Sachs!), with his chambermaid Polly(Connie Booth) always caught in the middle. Everybody in this TV series has put a lot of effort into their acting and I can't stop laughing whenever something funny happens in Fawlty Towers. I'm giving this legendary BBC TV series two thumbs up!
I have read most of the above comments and totally agree that without a doubt this was the greatest comedy programme ever and its standard will most probably never be surpassed. Cleese himself when asked a few years ago if there would ever be a further series said that it was unlikely because it was so good and "I don't think I can be funnier than that." I believe that one of the reasons for its endearing popularity (let's be honest, some of it is now dated and politically incorrect) is that there were only 12 episodes made. "The Office" has similarly prospered. Too many sitcoms have gone on for far too long, recycling the same tired jokes and stereotypes. "Always leave the audience wanting more" is not a well-used theatrical slogan for nothing. So although a little part of me would love to see a new episode or two, I know it will never happen and, in a way, that's a good thing.


                
I can only imagine what it must have been like for the millions of viewers back in 1975 and subsequently 1979 to sit down and watch an episode of Fawlty Towers for the first time. Considered by many as the greatest sitcom of all time, certainly by me. Made before I was born I connect with each character and laugh out loud at each episode, whether it's Basil's frustrations, Manuel's lack of understanding, Cybil's coarseness, or indeed the array of amusing guests.Only twelve episodes made, all concerned made every effort to ensure that what was put out was quality, a four year gap in between Series shows just what perfectionists Cleese, Booth and co. were. When I reach the sixth episode of Series 2, I often wonder 'if only there were more,' but to maintain the standard they did, they made the right decision. Twelve episodes of pure comedy gold.How do you go about picking a favourite episode, for many it's The Germans, for many it's Basil the Rat, personally I'll always have a fondness for The Kipper and The Corpse, even the title shows a level of genius.It's one of the few shows that can genuinely make you forget about a bad situation, you can check into Fawlty Towers and laugh your head off. Laughter will forever be the best medicine, and this show will forever remain Britain's best loved comedy. 10/10
I find it truly fascinating how some programmes date very badly, and others seem timeless. True humour I guess is naturally timeless, and Fawlty Towers shows absolutely no signs of being knocked off its rightful spot at the very top of the comedy tree. Every single episode is pure joy to watch, the chemistry between all cast members is a thing to behold. Each plays their part wonderfully and deliberately, and each gives us belly laughs. Poor Manuel you have to say after every episode. Basil torments him at every possible moment. It's the tortured relationship between Basil and Sybil that makes it. I don't think you can even begin to pick a favourite episode, they are all just wonderful, possibly Basil the Rat pips the others, maybe. Great British comedy, 10/10 but why only 12 episodes.
Without a doubt the funniest sitcom ever. After 30+ years they are still as fresh and funny as the day they were created. I can't imagine anything else creating so many funny and memorable lines as Fawlty Towers. Is there anything out there that you could watch dozens of times and still find it hilarious? The only tragedy with this series is that it ended prematurely. John Cleese is on record as saying they wanted to go out on top and didn't feel like they could top what they've done, but I couldn't disagree more. What if the "I Love Lucy" show only did a dozen shows? You wouldn't have the famous episodes like the candy assembly line, the wine stomp, vitavegimen, and dozens of other iconic episodes. Who knows what other even greater episodes would have come out if Fawlty Towers ran longer?


                
I gave it a 10 and surely deserves it. The show is amazing from the first to the last episode. There are many comedies where you give some laughs or simply are amused during the show. Fawlty Towers is different. You are laughing hard from the start to the climax. It's actually quite a simple humor, but played by huge and pretty strong characters that together make up a marvelous show. Every episode is a sure laugh.If you are thinking twice if you such see this series, don't think twice, honestly. Go for it. The only problem of Fawlty Towers was having only 12 episodes. But those are 6 hours of pure comedy.


                
Where does one even start review Fawlty Towers. It's a British comedy written by arguably the best comedian ever, John Cleese. Together with Connie Booth, Cleese managed to create 12 situations where audiences can do nothing but laugh, uproariously, at the characters and the situations.Undoubtedly when people are reminded of Fawlty Towers most people recognise "The Germans" but there is more, a whole lot more, to Fawlty Towers than this one episode. "Hotel Inspectors," "Communication Problems", "The Builders," "The Psychiatrist," "The Germans," "A touch of class," "Gourmet Night" and "The kipper and the corpse" are my favourites. Each one has numerous scenes of deadly humour that make me chuckle even as I write this review. John Cleese's idea for Basil Fawlty was inspired by an actual hotel he visited in Torque, and one really has to imagine how long such a place could remain open.You simply must watch this series, and should ideally own it because this is a show whose episodes you will want to watch again and again and again.


                
