John Cleese, master of physical and theoretical comedy, said it best when he described Monthy Python as a comedy of ideas and Fawlty Towers as a comedy of emotions. The humour in Fawlty Towers is much more conventional than anything the Pythons ever did, which is not necessarily a bad thing. Cleese may not be as inventive or subversive as he has been in the past here, but he's still pretty damn funny. After a few episodes you have already fallen in love with grumpy hotel keeper Basil, his smart alec wife Sybill, the graceful assistant, Polly and, Manuel, a waiter who's a bit moronic, but very likable. It's fun to see how Basil frantically stumbles into trouble in each episode, which is a result of his own unfriendliness more often than not. Now and then there's too much physical comedy, for instance in the episode "The Builders", where Sybill literally beats up an incompetent guy from a construction company, which is unbelievable and, well, not funny. Mostly, however, the comedy relies on Basil's ratty comments and his horrid behaviour, which switches from sheer animosity to sycophancy within seconds depending on the social status of his guest. Fawlty Towers did only span 12 episodes and that's probably a good thing, because the formula would have gotten old, had there been a third series. This way Cleese and the rest of the crew stopped exactly at the right time, which helps us to remember this as one of the funniest sitcoms ever to come out of the UK.


                
This series is a pioneer of British comedy. The crazy antics of a hotel owner. The lead actor and Director did an amazing job of creating a world you just want to keep coming back to


                
Almost 50 years old and still hilarious, it's the kind of show you can go back too now and again for a good laugh.


                
I really enjoy watching Fawlty Towers - its hilarious. The only problem is that it gets a little repetitive. But there are only 2 seasons - so its all right.Fawlty Towers is so funny due to a number of factors. Basil usually arguing with the customers, Manuel not having a clue whats going on, and the weird customers.This is certainly one of the best British comedies, surpassed only by Father Ted. I always love watching this show and I just can't stop laughing. I really recommend you to watch some Fawlty Towers (if you like comedies). Every episode always manages to crack me up. Once you start watching it you will want to watch more and more - its just so hilarious.To sum it up: purely hilarious!
This is a classic series, seen it many times on TV and I wasn't aware till recently that there were only 12 episodes (six in each season), I thought there were more (a child's mind is easily scrambled).John Cleese is a really good comedian and plays the hotel owner Basil Fawlty very well, you could call him dysfunctional or just not a very good people person, but in this he really shows how annoying every guest can be :) Prunella Scales plays the role of his better or maybe worse half, she is in her self enough to make Basil go crazy. They both do their best to run this hotel and really experience failure and countless mistakes, but they never seem to learn :)All the side characters are worth mentioning also, especially Polly who has to help again and again and Emanuel who is just a poor man from Barcelona that does communicate well in English.


                
