Drug wars, meth, the lot. I thought no thank you. I kept hearing how good it was and I kept saying: "No thank you" Last January I got sick, one of those illnesses you can't quite figure out. Maybe it was pre and post election depression, I don't know. But I stayed in bed for almost 10 days and then it happened. I saw the first episode and I was immediately and I mean immediately, hooked. I saw the entire series in 9 days. Voraciously. Now I had time to reflect. Why I wonder. When I think about it the first thing that comes to mind is not a thing it's Bryan Cranston. I know the concept was superb as was the writing but Bryan Cranston made it all real. His performance, the creation of Walter White will be studied in the Acting classes of the future. He is the one that pulls you forward - as well as backwards and sideways - then I realized that his creation acquired the power that it acquired, in great part thanks to the extraordinary cast of supporting players. I could write a page for each one of them but I'm just going to mention Aaron Paul. I ended up loving him. I developed a visceral need to see him find a way out. Well, what can I tell you. I know that one day, maybe when my kids are old enough, I shall see "Breaking Bad" again. I can't wait.


                
If you are among the few who haven't seen it yet: believe the hype, it really is THAT good. Breaking Bad may not depict reality the way 'Generation Kill' or 'The Wire' did - but then it's not about that, either. From an artistic point of view - performances, writing, direction, camera, music - this show is every bit as good as the other two mentioned above, but unlike those, 'Breaking Bad' just wants to entertain and therefore enjoys a lot more creative freedom.The show plays like the daydream fantasy of any underachieving, struggling middle class family man who's had to bury all his dreams (I mean: who wouldn't want to be a meth-kingpin for a little while?), before it turns into a nightmare. One could almost say that 'Heisenberg' is Walter White's 'Tyler Durden'(for those who don't get the reference: watch 'Fight Club' - you won't regret it).For pure entertainment value, this is simply the best show I've ever seen. Every single one of the main characters has already reached the status of a screen icon - when does that ever happen?! Most fun I've ever had watching a TV-show and an instant classic.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Everybody has their own opinion of how many stars a show deserves, whether more stars or fewer it's seldom so many people agree. "Breaking Bad" is possibly the best TV drama ever made - there isn't a wrong step, bad episode or miscast character throughout the whole series run. A willing suspension of disbelief is an absolute requirement to enjoy this drama. It is probably not plausible to believe that anyone like Walter White could succeed as a meth chemist for even one season without being killed or caught let alone the 62 episodes the series has. But the tight, virtually seamless story, and the sympathetic characters, who nearly all resonate with most viewers, make you willing to set aside any differences with plausibility (which, admittedly, the show takes huge liberties with). Like most serials it is best not to watch the show out of order! More then any other series, huge changes in plot, story and character arc take place so fast you are likely to be completely lost if you skip episodes. And the show is the proverbial roller coaster, taking you to the low points and peaks right along with your favorite characters, you might not want to miss a minute in this original and daring TV drama once you start watching!


                
I probably haven't been hooked to a TV show like I am to Breaking Bad before. This beautiful piece of art is incredibly well written and directed, furthermore the actors are doing a tremendous job! I've read a few remarks about the pace of the show, saying it is too slow. I completely disagree, there are so many aspects which get their place in the series, every single one in its own way and it would be horrible if we'd see a too fast paced show containing ridiculous cliffhangers like we see them on the major networks. Because this way you can entirely fall in love with the show, the characters and every tiny detail of the story and the best part of it, it is unbelievably addictive and makes you starve for more week after week! 10/10 Kudos to Mr. Gilligan, kudos to Mr. Cranston and kudos to everyone else who's making a contribution to this show!


                
I have to echo another reviewer on here and say that as of the past many years I have not watched television, save PBS, Discovery, or History channel. And the news, of course. There has been nothing except The Sopranos and Family Guy in the realm of series that warranted my attention. Almost everything out there is stupid drivel that insults the intelligence of educated human beings. But Now !! Now we have Breaking Bad !!!All I can say is: HOLY S**T !!! This is the best television series I've ever seen, and really goes into the realm of feature films as well, as far as being in my top ten. I cannot think of anything as of late that punched me in the face like this show did. I absolutely love it. If you have not seen it, do yourself a HUGE favor and rent the first season so you'll know what's going on, and you can see the transition of the characters. This show is beautifully written with plot twists coming in refreshing ways, and at just the right times. Some of what is shown I was surprised they put it on television,... and that's a great thing !! The acting is brilliant, and the themes are amazing, timeless and timely, and are presented to us in thought provoking ways that leave me pondering philosophical ideas long after the show is over. Yeah, this is a TV series !!! On AMC !! Hard to believe. This is one I'm raving about to everyone I know, and hope keeps going for a long, long time !!! Thanks to everyone involved with this genius show !!!


                
BREAKING BAD:Season One explodes like a sucker punch to the gut, and is nothing short of mind-blowing. The pilot for this series is a definite "Must See", and stands with the greats of Action/Adventure Television and Cinema. This segment begins at such a giddy peak, that you think the only way forward would be to tell the tale as a long flashback. However, through a marvelous piece of editing and writing, the plot miraculously moves forward from that point. Bryon Cranston's idiosyncratic performance is a joy to behold. He embodies a man who is against a rock, and an even harder place, who has no other option but to throttle his higher aspirations and grimly carry on. His solace and validation in middle-class morality and virtuous conduct is long gone. I eagerly look forward to more of this ambitious, entertaining series.


                
After many friends recommending me the show i had finally started watching it.. I could not get out of it.. i did not come out of my room for 3 days and completed 5 seasons eventually.. i could not cope with the end of the show and i could not find anything that can top this show.It intensifies season by season.. IT'S ALL ABOUT REACTIONS.. Acting 5/5 Plot 6/5 Score 4/5 Overall feel 22/10 There are no words to describe how great this show is so stop reading this review and start watching it..


                
I started watching Breaking Bad quite late (around the time of my first year in college, so we're talking 2012-2013, right before the final season aired) Everybody was praising the show to death, so eventually I gave in and decided to see for myself what all the fuss was about.Wow. Just wow.While the show has quite an unusual premise, it takes you along for the ride in every sense of the word. Bryan Cranston as Walter White has to be one of the best character portrayals I've ever seen. A major transition from Hal in Malcolm in the Middle. He succeeds in capturing every nuance of White, from overworked square to calculating crime lord.Aaron Paul's performance as Jesse Pinkman is fantastic also, displaying the utter tragedy of a wannabe meth peddler who happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. His dynamic with Cranston's White is brilliant and their chemistry (pardon the pun) is tough to beat.The cinematography throughout the show is beautiful. As a film graduate, I have the utmost respect for the production team for some of the shots and scenes they have captured over the duration of the show's airing. The editing as well should be heavily praised as well.As I said, for an unlikely setup; an overworked high school chemistry teacher diagnosed with lung cancer teaming up with a former pupil to cook methamphetamine to finance his family after he dies, it draws you into the drama.The supporting cast add so much to the story also. The likes of Gus Fring, Mike Ehrmantraut, Saul Goodman and Hank Schrader are instrumental to the development of the story and are excellently portrayed by the respective actors.People give Skyler a hard time for always being on Walt's back but let's take it from her perspective: her husband has become involved in a business that could potentially bring about the deaths of everyone in her family? Seems like a reasonable excuse to oppose him.In a sense, Walter Jr. is kinda the weak link. I mean, yeah fair enough, the actor and character has cerebral palsy, and RJ Mitte does a good job as the character, but he really doesn't go beyond eating breakfast in terms of character development, which is a shame. I would have loved to have seen a scene where he meets Jesse and confronts him. Ah well, too late now.Aside from this, Breaking Bad remains a masterpiece of television.
"Breaking Bad" is the best television show. Ever.We start out with one main character, Walter White (played by Bryan Cranston), who is struggling to make ends meet working both as a high school chemistry teacher and part time at a car wash. Then he gets diagnosed with cancer. Then he breaks bad.Teaming up with an unlikely sidekick, Jesse Pinkman (played by Aaron Paul), who is the immature "yo, bitch"-spouting, high-school-screw-up small-time drug dealer, Walt and Jesse both put their skills towards the drug world to try to make good by their families.This show has been masterfully put together with layer upon layer of insight into some of the most interesting characters ever realized in the history of television. We have some very dark characters, and a lot of grey characters, and it all adds up to brilliant dialogue and plot lines.The creator, writers, directors and actors have paid attention to every single detail, putting thought into every nuance in every character in every scene. Because of this attention to detail there is something for everyone in this show. Every thinking brain will immediately be attracted to the intelligence so evidently on display, that even if you're not a drug dealing chemist living in Albuquerque, you will find something in the characters that connects you to them and makes you hang on for dear life.Get on your couch now and start watching "Breaking Bad" from the very beginning, and don't miss a single scene.
Absolutely one of the most ground breaking bad ass shows on the screen, (pardon the pun). Definitely not for everyone but finally something that feels real.I personally like the fact they pull no punches. I find myself pausing at the fact that I am so intrigued by this hard core street wise program, more than any of the other big name series. This one really hits home and gives a true behind the scenes look at what most would consider the bad guys. I'm not condoning the contents of the story, and I don't think the show is either, there is no glamor in what these boys are doing, but it's giving an insight to the darker side of many streets. How the denial and desperation that can occur to the common working stand up citizen, the pillar of society that suddenly changes his moral standing in a society driven by the almighty dollar. This is pretty dam close to Fallen (Michel Douglas) but with up to date street smarts nd a lot more punch. The characters don't over exaggerate their roles and the story line isn't filled with cleaver dialog or near to impossible feats of bravery or beating impossible odds. Just true to life screwed up events that could take place in the real world. I think they did their research on this one. Good work everyone. I hope we get more than a second and third season out of this great crew (every one of them). From the writing and production sets to the acting, costumes, lighting, filming and originality. I've seen a few good series lost to the wrong decision makers, hope this one doesn't end up short (long live FireFly)Chuckbytes


                
Re-Watched it 7 times and counting. I guess I liked it.


                
When I decided to start writing reviews for all of the TV shows that I have seen at least 1 season of, I started with my least favorites, and worked my way up. Now I'm finally here, at my top 3 favorite shows of all time, and I'm thinking to myself, why? Why would I want to write a review about such a popular show, that has probably had every thing imaginable written about it already? Well, I'm a completionist, and I'll see this through, but what I have to say about this series will most likely be what you've heard before. So, all that being said, I'll try to keep it short, and sweet.Breaking Bad, simply put, is one of television's best programs. AMC lucked out when they first picked it up, because it's largely considered by many, to be one of the best TV shows of our time. Thanks to Breaking Bad, The Walking Dead, and Mad Men; AMC made the transition from American Movie Classics, to something more, as they advertise themselves as. These interpersonal, character driven dramas, are truly special, and are some of the best TV out there. Back to Breaking Bad, you've heard it all before. It excels in acting, writing, directing, character development, plot, etc.This is my favorite series, right alongside AMC's other cultural phenomenon; The Walking Dead. The two have many similarities, namely in the character department. Both put the characters first, and that makes them all the better. Personally, when I'm watching a show, I find connection to the characters, and the subsequent development of them, to be the most important thing. Breaking Bad fills this criteria.Overall, the highlight of Breaking Bad, to me at least, is it's great characters, and acting from its awesome cast. Bryan Cranston leads this show to greatness as Walter White. All of the seasons of this show are amazing, but season 5 is particularly phenomenal, and definitely one of the best single seasons of a show I've ever seen. Although I might be biased, this show is one of the 3 that I believe everyone should watch at least once in their lifetime, along with Lost and The Walking Dead. The powerful themes, incredible acting, thought provoking scenarios, and emotional moments make these programs valuable views. As a result, Breaking Bad will stand the test of time.My Rating: 10/10


                
To say this program has great writing is an understatement. BB has the best writing I have ever had the pleasure of listing & reading (I always leave the captioning on). The acting is top notch by Cranston. It is also very good by Aaron Paul (Pinkman), Dean Norris (Hank), Betsy Brandt (Marie), RJ Mitte (Walt junior). Unfortunately, it feels like Anna Gunn (Skyler) is the weak link. It is hard to know if the Gilligan is trying to make a somewhat awkward and unlikable character, or if it is just not hitting the mark. I prefer to think that the writing is intentionally odd for Skyler for some reason, and that we will get to learn more in the episodes and seasons to come. The dialogue is absolutely brilliant for the most part – it almost always rings true. The episodes are gripping (for the most part). The story is brutal and comedic at the same time. I have to opt for a 10/10 because there is not another program that comes close – even Dexter which I've been enjoying for 5 seasons doesn't have the writing or acting to stand up to BB.


                
I cannot find words to tell you all how perfect this show is, but all I can say is that there will be none other that can beat this perfect TV show. Breaking Bad deserves all the hype it gets, Vince Gillian truly delivers to the viewers. You will laugh, cry, and your jaw will be dropped to the floor at how shocking it can get. I get how I'm posting this in 2017, but this show will go down in history for being one of the best shows ever. If you haven't seen it, you NEED to see it right now, I can guarantee you that when you finish the show you will NOT regret it. AND, the 3rd to last episode of the series is the only 10/10 to ever make IMDb, so that should explain itself. WATCH IT!


                
One of the best series to be ever made for TV. This drama made with a calculated budget unlike game of thrones was never boring. Kudos for the great story by Vince Gilligan. By the time i finished the final episode i am spell bound. The camera work, music, editing and what not - everything worked for breaking bad. Walter played by Bryan Cranston will make you feel for him and at times will even turn you bad. He blurs the line between good and bad. The script is so solid that you can hardly find loopholes in any episode. All your feelings, emotions, attitude are brought to life by this guy. Watch the series to understand what it is to be alive. Don't miss this one.


                
I never watched any series like this . Each character is a epic . The one awesome thing you have understand is that it's like real life story runs in mind of alll time , no unrealistic , illogical ploy . Oh god , sometime episodes stunningly superb.


                
Saw my headline? Yeah, that's all I can say. Watch it and enjoy the ride. I can watch the entire series again! From episode 1 of season 1 til the very end, it was such a pleasure :) There's a reason the show is so popular. I was sad when i finished it. From a teacher to the great Heisenberg..BITCH! See what I did there? You'll get it soon enough, just watch it :)


                
What I so love about "Breaking Bad" is that we know it leaves a legacy. It's not when we see sales skyrocket for a show. Not the Emmy awards. But when we watch a finale that does it the right way (sometimes, it works to do it the wrong way), and it leaves us speechless. It's not only that we are actually satisfied with this series finale, it leaves on that rare high note that other shows cannot seem to catch through their runs. They either stagger, or take a strange road. Only "The Sopranos" knew how to go down the ambiguous road, and it fit perfectly. "Breaking Bad" takes us from good to bad, and the journey is not a straight line. It zigs, it zags. It dings. it explodes. What we have here in the finale goes beyond the ambiguity and finds the spot in hell that each and every character deserves. All "Breaking Bad" has ever done is tick like a time-bomb, and all through "Felina" I could hear that ticking. It takes a second time to appreciate "Felina", and the whole series all-together, because its so dark and deep, the dig continues. Each season is a cakewalk compared to the next. It grows yet dies. "The Sopranos" gave us a playground of deep emotion and a ride into the subconscious. "Breaking Bad" gives us the results of the up and the down without cutting to black beforehand. It cuts right when it needs to, because this is an open and shut story. A story that weaves through all the predictable shows and gives us unbearable suspense, all due to the fact that it can be so unpredictable. It is beautiful, in the darkest of terms. How rarely does the puzzle piece fall into place so masterfully.
This is it. This is the peak of television, nay, this is the peak of the entire film industry. Never will there be anything like Breaking Bad on the screen ever again. It is to this day, and always will be, the best Tv-series of all time.I could go into detail about all the things that are good with this show, but I fear then this review would be endless. But the most astonishing thing about Breaking Bad is its attention to detail. The creators, writers, and directors are pure geniuses, how they can even come up with all these impregnated details and foreshadowings is beyond me. As astonishing is the acting, from Giancarlo Esposito and Byran Cranston to Aaron Paul and Anna Gunn, every single performance is spot on, and Cranston's is out of this world - more than deservedly winning him 4 Emmy's and a Golden Globe.To spot flaws in this series, one would need an electron microscope. I'm not even sure then if you could find any. It is like the Mona Lisa of Tv - infact, the Louvre should replace her with a painting of Walter White. Flawless, absolutely flawless, I cannot put into words how good this show is.Everyone who hasn't seen this, must see it before they die.
Everyone who has seen it - watch it again.


                
the BEST TV DRAMA SERIES of ALL TIME Breaking Bad After so many lugubrious turns, "Breaking Bad" came to an end on Sunday on an almost uplifting note.Running since 2008..5 Glorious SEASONS & 62 clinching EPISODES & rating of 9.5/10 on IMDb & 99/100 on Metacritic it ended with the MOST SATISFYING FinalE ever..Watched by 10.3 million viewers.A simple story of a chemistry teacher making blue meth for providing his family with his former student teaches us every important meaning of LIFE.With very REAL/GREAT/EXTRAORDINARY performance by Bryan Cranston & created by Vince Gilligan this TV Series blowned my MIND..totally.I have watched so many Great English TV Series like The Walking Dead, Modern Family, The Big Bang Theory, Supernatural, Firefly & Sherlock also but this was PURE GENIUS.All Hail The King HEISENBERG!!!


                
The main contender for the best show of all time. It was at the top of my list for years, but was recently unseated by another show I'll leave unnamed in this review. BB is a priceless piece of modern American art. A rare experience that gives life new meaning. Must see for everyone.


                
The greatest show ever created. Perfection in every detail. It's an experience of great cinematographic art and character development. The intensity and drama will ensnare you. Yet the black comedy will make you laugh. This show is all it could be and will stand in history as one of the most amazing TV-series ever made.And the cast... Never forget the cast. Every actor and actress fills their parts with great success! With the great Bryan Cranston in the role of his life.The show was perfect, all bad things must come to an end. And what an end.I bow humbly


                
I'm in my fifties and have watched enough television programs and movies that nearly every fictional story I see is repetitively and transparently predictable. I know how it's going to turn out before the halfway point, because Hollywood just keeps regurgitating the same story lines and scripts ad nauseam. But when I watch Breaking Bad, I find virtually ZERO predictability. I am completely locked-in through every episode because the plot always manages to deviate from the expected. And yet it does so, for the most part, without seriously challenging rational beliefs. I think this show is an absolute masterpiece, and the kind of gem that is too rarely encountered in the garbage-filled thousand-channel morass that is television today. Breaking Bad should be considered the absolute benchmark for serial dramatic programming.


                
(Flash Review)And not for the obvious reasons. This show is so fantastic because of Scene Structure! Most every scene is like a brief vignette with a clear start, middle and end. To break it down further; the start addresses the tension point, the middle acts out how the characters portray their perspectives on the point and the end resolves the point. Thus, after each scene the story progressively builds on itself nicely with no wasted fodder. The Shield and Barry Lyndon first come to mind with those effective screenplay structures. Layer on top of that structure, stellar acting, compelling scenarios with highly memorable moments, clever plot twists, honest tension with rather believable characters, you get a masterpiece. Go read the plot from many other places. I wanted to touch on a lesser yet import topic here.
OK, we all know the synopsis: gifted but henpecked high school chemistry teacher gets lung cancer and decides to cook world class meth, hijinks ensue. But it's much more than that.The show is written VERY realistically. Because Walt starts out as such a real human being, in every scene, in every episode, right to the end, the viewer finds him or herself asking, "What would I do in the same situation?" No other show has managed to do that.And as the show goes on, one's answers diverge more and more because we're less in Walt's position with every episode. How would a normal person go about making and selling drugs without getting caught? What would we do when our competition came to kill us? Those may be pretty simple. But what would we do when our loved ones found out, and keeping it quiet meant harming them, for whom, we tell ourselves, we have taken all this risk in the first place?They say there are only seven basic plots, and America's clear favorite is "overcoming the monster," but this is not that kind of story. It's a "tragedy" much like the greatest story ever told: The Iliad, and it has elements of a dark comedy in it. Walt is Achilleus. Gus is Hektor. The DEA and APD are the gods, not knowing who to help and where to strike, and not entirely good guys in any case. The intelligent viewer will go from rooting for Walt to hating him just slightly less than his enemies. The less intelligent viewer will go from loving Walt to merely hating his shrewish but sensible wife. But all will enjoy the show. Buckle up for the ride of your life.


                
