So disappointed with Breaking Bad, after so many people telling me it was brilliant, the ending being amazing. Well I couldn't disagree more, bored all the way through, apart from the odd 30 seconds at the end of a couple of episodes, then the next episode would start, and back to being boring.I really wanted to like it, I just couldn't, nothing grabbed my attention, nothing about the show made me continue watching apart from the hope it would get better (based on friends & family telling me it would).If you haven't seen it yet, I hope you enjoy it more than myself.
Was expecting good things from this as everybody kept going on about it and had some great actors in it, but was very disappointed. It took me 2 attempts to watch it all. 1st attempt I only got to season 2 ep2 and gave up because I was bored. 2nd time round I watched up to season 4 as people said that's when it got good (It didn't get any better as far as I was concerned) I only finished it because there was 1 season left to go. It may have been better if I had of watched it before sons of anarchy but I had watched sons of anarchy before breaking bad and in my opinion S.O.A takes some beating and breaking bad came nowhere close to it. It was very slow and to be honest it was kind of like the saying "same s**t different day".


                
I borrowed Season 1 and 2 of Breaking Bad from a friend after hearing the rave reviews and the 9.5/10 star rating on IMDb. I had high expectations for this show, thinking it would be on par with a show like Dexter. Unfortunately, it failed to deliver.I watched 10 episodes in total. The entire Season 1 and the first three episodes of Season 2. It just failed to grab me. I felt like the episodes were slow, dragged out ideas that the writers attempted to stretch out for as long as they possibly could. There are hardly any background story lines going on, so you only see the main story line, stretched out so much it's really boring.Normally after I watch episodes of a new show, I am left with anticipation for the next episode. Like a good book you can't put down. Breaking Bad didn't do this to me. In fact, I was so bored that I stopped Season 2 after three episodes. I couldn't torture myself anymore. If you're interested in Breaking Bad, I suggest you give it a go. But don't have high expectations because you'll probably be let down.


                
This show is stupid. It's a stupid show full of stupid Americans for stupid Americans. It fails when it tries to create any suspense and the plot is unbelievable. All of this show is terrible and a complete and utter waste of time. I regret every hour I spent watching this crap and it deserves none of the hype it has been given.The characters are probably some of the worst, most unlikable, retarded characters I've even seen. Walt is a horrible person, Skyler is a stupid *insert word for a female dog here* (point in case, a shortened version of a scene. Ted: 'I don't want your money' Skyler: 'Are you blackmailing me Ted? Do you want more money?'), Jesse is pathetic man-child. Walt Jr just jumps on the bandwagon of hate, Marie is just a time filler and Hank a terrible cop who is incredibly insecure.The only likable points in this show is when Gus walks out of the explosion seemingly unharmed, adjusts his tie then the camera shows his scorched face and he falls down dead and the scene where Mr.Minerals gets killed by Nazis. Hank Dying was my favourite scene as I hated him. I feel hatred towards the death of Gus as it led to the point where season 4 fizzled like a fuse on a damp firework and 'everything is going to be okay'. But oh no, the flower used to poison the child, the tension is palpable as a chemist isn't smart enough to throw away a goddamn potted plant (!) (sarcasm if you couldn't guess)All in all, terrible plot, terrible characters, terrible writing.
This is another one of those shows that a staggering majority of viewers regard as perfect. It's not. it's slightly above average, then the character interactions begin to take on a daytime TV feel and it becomes utter trash. People bicker endlessly. Walter's wife becomes a complete brat and stays that way for the rest of the series. When Walter's not having it out with a spouse that desperately needs a beating, he's having it out with his partner in crime. The show continues in this fashion for a grueling 5 seasons with occasional breaks in the low brow Jerry Springeresque drama for an interesting moment before it goes right back to it.You want good TV? Watch Dexter. Watch Fringe. Watch GoT or Mr. Mercedes or Mindhunter.The show had potential. It wasted it and turned to drivel.


                
I never believe any hype that claims a TV series is the "best of all time", just because my tastes tend to run differently. I do often enjoy some of these "bests", I just wouldn't rate them as highly. I didn't think "The Sopranos" was the best TV show ever, but I watched the whole thing and I got into it.And then, there was "Breaking Bad". I just don't see it. Whatever it is that all these other people are seeing, I'm completely missing. I thought the first two episodes had some promise, but it failed to develop. I couldn't get with any of the characters, either to love them or to hate them enough to keep watching to see what happened. I wouldn't say my expectations were too high, because I make up my own mind about things and I wasn't familiar with any of the actors, so I really didn't know what to expect. But wow... there just wasn't anything here for me.


                
I heard that this show was so good. I wonder what other people were watching. So far I am just trying to stay awake during the first season. The show moves so slow and I keep hoping that it would pick up. I already can't stand Walt's wife and I would like to kill her off. Jesse is worthless. Walt is doing some stupid things. I don't think I can continue watching this mess of a show.


                
When I read the synopsis a few years ago, already I felt that the storyline lacked interest for me and did not watch any of the series. Then recently some friends were so enthusiastic about the series that I finally got started on it.So I watched all of episode 1 series 1 and then reflected. Now, it is not as if I am the kind of person who has trouble finding things funny that other people do. But I would say that let's say only half of the material out there that people will find funny will affect me that way. However, this material failed continuously to amuse or excite me in any way except for the suspense of the opening scene not being resolved until late in the episode.I think of the first episode of a series as the pilot - therefore it sets the level of interest for an entire series. Which meant that after that I simply gave up on the whole series.So what went wrong? Although jokes are never funny when explained, there exists an anatomy of humour that one can correlate to any given snippet. The general profile of something funny is that it has some element of surprise - it builds up a picture and the moment of laughter is when the viewer or reader is forced suddenly to see things another way. And generally that other way has to have a level of originality for the effect to work.So I think the problem actually lies in the construction of the screenplay. As much as the ideas appear to be original, they do not unfold in a way that produces the comic effect. Nor therefore is there much occasion of suspense.So for me the real question is why do so many people find it funny? I think that for me will remain a mystery.


                
I have no idea why people like this show. I cannot find a single redeeming trait, not one. The acting is horrible, the characters unlovable, the story-line crap, the directing idiotic, nothing about this show works for me. I have tried to watch it so many times because so many love this show, but honestly the show gets worse for each try I make. Also tried to jump around a bit and check out the most celebrated episodes a couple of extra times, but nah, nothing. I seldom hand out a one (1), I save those for the worst crap ever made such as The Flash, so I will give this a 2, but that feels too much.


                
See at the bottom for explanation on strangely spelled words;This story starts off with some potential interesting plots and continues with some potential angles and plots. But sadly nearly all of what goes on - i.e. makes out the content of the series is based on an increasing stupidity ! Yes, stupidity! The main character who is supposedly a 'very smart chemist' and more, eventually fails to make any planning ahead. He has no ability to voice himself. And so on and so on. It is even a surprise that he is able to buy a hamburger at Macnudles, or take a p iss... It is just so annoying how everything he does fails because he is to stupid to do anything and this creates 'entertainment'.. Well, there's one slight exception; There are some parts - I call them parts - that are cut into the action that does not belong to any part of the main story at all - like parts of some other movies were accidentally put random in to this series. But again and again and again and again I have to watch one of the stupidest of men who initially were portrayed to have an IQ above (yes above) 50.... It becomes so annoying to look at all this stupidity - almost like me repeating myself now (only 1000 times worse). From another IMDb User: IMDb - you clowns. don't tell me there are prohibited words without telling me what the hell they are you time wasting goofs. For everyone else reading this. "P i ss ed" is a prohibited word. Can you believe this fuking sht? --- End Other User.


                
I know the story is good but God that show was boring. I just couldn't binge watch it all at once. It took me like 3 months to watch. Some people think it is really worth it, well I think not!


                
