"Scarface" is a useful movie to have around. If you walk into someone's house for the first time, and he quotes "Scarface" twice in the first 15 minutes, you know it's time to leave.After escaping his native Cuba during 1980's Mariel boatlift, former jailbird Tony Montana (Al Pacino) gets a second life in the land of opportunity, which he takes full advantage of as one of Miami's leading cocaine cowboys. Tony wants it all, including his boss's wife, his sister's devotion, and a mountain of blow to call his own, but once he gets it, he starts on a downhill trajectory with fatal consequences.The fact so many people like "Scarface" is testament to the intensity of Pacino's performance more than the intelligence behind it. In the DVD documentary, Pacino readily admits to the character being two-dimensional. For some, that's great. He's not too complicated that way. But for me, Tony Montana is worth maybe 20 minutes in a movie about someone else. He blows too hot.Pacino isn't great here. He has some good scenes like at the beginning when he's being questioned by some cops, but mostly he just yells a lot. The supporting performances are uniformly weak, including F. Murray Abraham, who gave one of the great screen performances in the following year's "Amadeus." Michelle Pfeiffer does the best work for 10 minutes, but then the script seems to lose interest in her character and she ends up throwing out some random histrionics before exiting stage left.The storyline is simplistic and uninvolving. The score is one of the lamest, especially during the opening sequence showing news footage from the Mariel boatlift. The motivations of everyone from Tony's early benefactor Frank Lopez to Hector the Colombian are at best opaque and at worst cry plot convenience. There's a silly bit of business involving Tony's sister and mother which is dragged out too long. And with Pacino's central character so unlikable, this is all too much to deal with.Is it director Brian De Palma? De Palma makes interesting movies, just not always good ones. He made some very good movies around the early '80s, and "Scarface" would seem like a prime candidate to be another. But it's like when he has a great actor to work with, like Pacino or Sean Penn in "Casualties Of War," he loses the ability to rein them in and just lets them bolt through the fences. At the same time, De Palma often gets great performances from less-heralded actors, like John Travolta in "Blow Out," Craig Wasson in "Body Double," and Michael J. Fox in "Casualties Of War." He's not untalented, just maddening inconsistent.The film does have passion, and some momentum and excitement that carries into the final crescendo. There's a terrific sequence involving Montana and an assassination target that generates some real concern with the audience because you are actually meant to care a little about the people involved, and Tony for once is not acting according to type.But mostly "Scarface" is an '80s TV movie with marathon swearing and bloodletting, and a performance from Pacino that hopefully got it out of his system for a while. It's cathartic, maybe, but so's running someone off the road after they cut you off. Not exactly reasonable therapy.


                
I recently watched this film a couple weeks ago, and I was forever waiting for this slow-moving, boring movie to end.  Definitely not for mile-a-minute action fans, because it makes you wanna fall asleep throughout the whole middle of the film.  You could sleep through the climax if you wanted to! Incredibly dull, and trite.  The only thing that holds it up is Pacino's masterful, bravura performance.  Otherwise, a stinker.


                
i'll keep it short...de palma's remake of a classic film was a huge mistake and a worthless film.paul muni the original scarface is rolling in his grave and yet smiling because he knows his performance was a real one.i love pacino, but he should have never done this mess. and that's exactly what it is...a mess!those of you who think this a great film are most likely those who have no regard for anything but gratuitous violence and extreme over the top antics.stone as usual in his obsessive and neurotic manner took a story and smeared it with his demented mind.


                
This movie can't hide behind the "dated" excuse, since it's an '80s adaptation of a '30s success.The tone, the pacing, the acting (Pacino's Tony Montana is a cartoon), the editing, all point to one thing: A director who couldn't put a good film in the can if he accidentally took one of Scorsese's home from the printer.The script is one of Oliver Stone's best efforts, and the theme was over-the-top topical. Given real production values and someone willing to spend time cutting it together properly it could have been a great movie. But Brian de Palma is like Tony Montana, ignoring his lack of talent or judgment and completing the job on balls alone, and everyone in his vicinity dies out of negligence, association, or misapprehension.
Al Pacino, Michelle Pfeiffer, Robert Loggia, Ángel Salazar... are great. It's a pleasure to see how they act. They characters are shown exactly how they expected to be and sometimes more than it. Dialogs are remarkable too. Tony's tricks, Chi Chi's manners, Elvira's eyes, Mama's anger - each one worth watching. All this could impress, but...After about a half of film you feel satisfied with acting, you know all characters, know what are they, what they do and even can predict how then end. It's too long, if shortened film would be sharpened. And finally, red colour seems too dominating. Without shootings film surely loses style, but in my opinion it's too unreasonable here. What does it stand for? Nothing but a plot? Performance's lost in a blood colour mess, I think.


                
Al Pacino gives a good performance in a movie cursed by cliches. Once you understand the principle of the movie (pack as much graphic cheapness in it as possible) it gets kind of boring. Then again, a lot of unintended comic is produced (eg -SPOILER- when Tony's sister tells him that she had just gotten married to Manolo - right after Tony shot the latter - what a coincidence! How, like, totally tragic!!)All in all, a truly pathetic movie, which kind of diminished my respect for Al Pacino's judgment a big deal. I mean, what's the point of a brilliant performance in a movie with such a catastrophe of a plot?My advice: As with any film with which Oliver Stone is associated, watch this movie as a comedy.
I don't understand the fascination behind his movie.I mean, OK, he has a lot of drugs, he has a lot of women, he has a lot of money, and he has a lot of guns.I can understand where those elements would appear to the "gangsta" crowd...but even then there are movies that aren't as boring.And it is a remake to boot. Al Pacino playing Tony Montana who is supposed to be Al Capone only now he's Cuban instead of Italian and he does coke instead of booze and he's an immigrant instead of a New Yorker and he's in Florida instead of Chicago and dies instead of going to jail on tax evasion.I can see how it all works for an update, but "The Untouchables" didn't need an update to be good. In fact it was a better movie.Because, really, when you break down the movie to what it really is, the only thing, the only word that comes to mind is "boring." It is long and dull and this is despite the face that under most circumstances both Pacino and De Palma are generally the furthest thing from dull.Ultimately, it needs to be streamlined. As it is, it is one long elaboration and a shoot out at the end with only a couple really developed characters.All involved could do better.


                
In my defense, I was really expecting to like this film. It has, unfortunately, not aged well at all; every scene screams this to me. I'll agree, Pacino can do a mean accent, and I felt fine with his performance. The other actors, unfortunately, fell short. Also, some of the more violent scenes felt like they were forced into the film. It's no secret that the crowds dig unique ways of killing off characters. I have a feeling Stone thought one day, 'Hey, I bet chainsaws would be great,' or 'Hanging from helicopters sounds like the bomb!' and then found his chance to (clumsily) throw that into this film. It's also well known that they dig swearing, so f-bombs are thrown all over the place. Now, I know what you're thinking, and that's that I am offended by all of this. I'm perfectly content with graphic content if it works, but in this case, it just seemed to not fit. At last, to somehow make people think they were watching something more than an action flick, which this kinda is. But wait, how could we possibly end this story. Eureka, I've got it: go Nicholas Sparks on the script! Tony's last day is his worst, and then a skinny version of the terminator does what about fifteen hair metal rockers fail to do, which is sticking bullets in poor Tony's spine. He then makes a dramatic dive down to his fountain, where we meet a motif (which the crowds also dig) and then the film's over. At the end, I think I was supposed to feel sorry for Tony (I mean, the guy doesn't kill kids, so he's good, right?). Overall, the bad slightly outweighs the good (which techno scores are still cool, okay?!), and this ends up only being a mediocre film with all of the elements to draw in the crowds.
I felt it was one I should watch, sadly it disappointed. How the main character wasn't wiped out before is ludicrous. The plot is thin, the acting is wooden and the fake blood looks like poster paint. If you haven't watched it don't bother. Several shootouts were very A Team with hundreds of bullets miraculously missing their target at times.
There is one reviewer here who asks "Is there something wrong with me because i did not like this film at all?" No, in my opinion, you are a very intelligent man who knows garbage when he sees it. DePalma, the director, has said numerous times that it absolutely appalls him that some people love this film because the main character is " badass". Tip: if you want someone to not take you seriously and conclude you are a brain damaged ten year old boy, then by all means say badass. DePalma said many times he made this film to show the futility of violence and complete emptiness that type of will lead you to. I laugh at all these little boys here totally misreading the film and director's intention. Pacino has also expressed his great displeasure at so many fanboys thinking that is a cool way to live. Sorry guys, you are all lame
This movie was a huge thriller. I could barely look when the chainsaw scene was happening. The way Al Pacino wrapped the guy up made me have to cover my eyes. I didn't like the gory scenes in this movie. Also, this movie didn't have to be 3 hours long. Half of the time Al Pacino was just swearing. The scene where they were at the pool wasn't needed in my opinion. The type of movie isn't for me, but people who like a thrill with some gore..... go watch this movie. I would have to rate this movie a 4/10 .


                
At last, I saw it. This movie is one of the most talked of Paccino's movies but so far, it was just reviews for me. Now, I can understand why it remains a reference in the 80's movies.I was very surprised by its violence. Even for today, the bathroom scene is really vivid and all the subsequent killings are violent. Then, Paccino's character is unusual because he is totally driven (or nuts or stoned as you wish<U+0085>). He knows what he wants (liberty, power, money, woman) and he goes on even if it leads him to big troubles. At first, I was a bit shocked by all his macho attitude but under the skin, you can still find the good old Al. His scenes with Pfeiffer are great and he really know how to win a woman with his smile. It was also funny to see actually big names 20 years younger and I dare everyone to recognize "young maid Marian" as she really look like terribly different. I would conclude that this movie could really be viewed as a prequel for "Carlito's Way'. I like the similar Hawaiian beach poster, but the latter is really a masterpiece because all the team have mastered their skills with the time.


                
