The b&w cinematography for Paths of Glory is very crisp, reflecting Kubrick's background as a magazine photographer, but I wish I'd never watched this. I admire some other Kubrick movies, but this movie suggests that the simplicity one observes here and in all subsequent Kubrick films, might just be shallowness; as it is here.This script is dross, and hopelessly naff with its dumb sermon. The whole thing is overdetermined. What possible idea in it could a viewer disagree with? I felt like I was being led by the nose, because there isn't one syllable of ambiguity to be found in it; like a children's storybook. All you need is a morality detector with two settings, 'good person' and 'bad person.' George MacReady is over the top as a one-dimensional villain. One prisoner (Pierre) chews the scenery when offered a last drink; overacting at it's finest and pure hambone comedy. The extremely bad acting of the sobbing prisoner (Maurice) made my mouth hang open. The way his exit march is handled is utterly obtuse and unaffecting. Less important but odd, the attitude of the production has nothing in common with 1915. Never once does this feel like anything but 1957.The ending in which an entire room full of soldiers all have an epiphany at the exact same moment is dramatic rubbish. Show me a room full of fifty men who all have the same emotional response to anything, and I'll show you a corny dramatic lie. Everything in this movie (and I mean everything) is amateurish except the cinematography.
The only explanation I have for this movie's ten-star reviews from otherwise intelligent people is groupthink - "if everyone says it's great, then it MUST be great!" Nothing about this movie rings true - the acting, save for the woman at the end, is stilted, with the worst offenders being Adolphe Menjou and George Macready. Kirk Douglas is not much better, and the scene where he tells off Adolphe Menjou is cringe-inducingly bad.And the sets, except for the palace from which the generals preside, don't lend any air of authenticity of all.Worst of all, the movie is based on a lie - if you don't believe me, check out "Goofs" on IMDb's home page for this movie.I'll go to my grave trying to figure out why this movie is considered to be such a big deal.
I just finished watching Paths Of Glory. I now wish I could have those two hours of my life back. This film is nothing but an exercise in the depressing. I kept thinking that the film would show some purpose, some justice, something to cheer for. But instead it starts off dark and depressing, and it ends dark and depressing. I don't know if the makers of the film want us to feel that all military generals are evil sadists, or just the French Generals. I don't know if they want us to feel that there is no justice in the military, or just no justice in the French military. If I could have given less than a 1 star rating, I would have done so. Don't waste your time on this film, you've been warned.
The one and only reason that I wanted to see this movie was to see Tim Carey.A few articles have stated he was somewhat of a character and that Kirk Douglas became annoyed with him more than once during the filming of this picture.Seems as though Carey was accused of scene stealing especially during the long dragged out firing squad sequence.His waling's and carrying on seemed to bother the star of the movie.For that reason when Douglas was shown scowling while Carey was protesting during his death march it made me laugh,I figured he really was angry at Carey.In all fairness the scene stealing rap on Carey doesn't seem correct.Check out the distance from headquarters to the spot where the prisoners are going to be shot,it looks like a quarter of a mile.Some guy that feels he hasn't done anything wrong is taking a long walk to drums seeing those death posts draw closer oh so slowly,it's not surprising if he was beside himself.Without Carey's moaning the scene would start to fringe on boring.This movie gets a high rating from many persons even though it seems like the actions of the commanding officer go unexplained by the movie makers.Maybe I missed something but this is what puzzles...first the commanding officer states that the lost of one of his men is far more important than any promotion and he seems very serious about it.By the time he does an inspection of the trenches he is an unexplained different person,all business,without feeling for the battle weary.From there he gets worse,still unexplained he wants victory at all cost,which means bombing your own men.Then when accused of this he says it never happened.Seems as though not too much thought was given to this character,to be the bad guy is one thing,to show three faces and not stand behind any of them is another.


                
