Kubrick is one of the really great film auteurs of the 20th century, and Path of Glory is admired by many as a work of early maturity. Indeed, there is much to admire. The clinically sharp black and while photography; the use of long tracking shots; fine performances, particularly George Macready as an ambitious general and Adolphe Menjou in perhaps his finest work in a career filled with portrayals of reptilian manipulators; crisp editing; effective use of sound. Indeed, it bears many of the hallmarks of Kubrick's more mature (from Dr. Strangelove and Lolita onwards) style. One particularly uncanny stylistic element: the tracking shots and interiors in some ways prefigure Resnais's great Last Year at Marienbad--which in turn seems to be the source of much of Kubrick's style from 2001: A Space Odyssey onward.And yet this film feels flat. It's arguably the emotionally chilliest of all of Kubrick's films. Its unending succession of military stupidity and venality (even for the French army) is oppressive. It is a classic war-is-hell-and-the-commanders-are-the-ninth-circle polemic--and all its technical polish cannot disguise its formulaic hollowness. It lacks the most distinctive thing characteristic of all of Kulbrick's mature films--sardonic humor. Even the most touching moment in the film--the café scene--is somewhat forced.Kubrick was obviously fascinated with war, from his very first film, Fear and Desire (which is even flatter and more formulaic then Paths of Glory)to Spartacus to Dr. Strangelove to Full Metal Jacket, with growing maturity and mastery. Of Kubrick's early films, The Killers stands out; but it is not until we reach Dr. Strangelove and Lolita that his full genius is apparent.For the Kubrick fan, see this film to understand the arc of his career. I can't really recommend it to others.
This example of younger Stanley Kubrick's cinematography shows also younger Kirk Douglas as Col. Dax of 710 Regiment in 1916 during World War I. There were so many high praises of this film, that I decided to watch it closely, and... and I was deeply disappointed, as this movie surely has not stood the test of time and today is intercepted as a mere bleak, hollow, dark, vapid and rather weak exercise in D - depression, despair, disenchantment, drool and drainage. I agree, was was not all exciting and interesting, but this movie does not deliver any strong message, nor does it succeed to damn war as evil, or nor does it teach us any lesson at all. It is seen as a brisk, but shallow attempt of early film film-making, dire and failed. Kubrick did not persuade us that war is evil, the general ennui and detached air did not help us feel any bonds to main heroes, and even great final scene failed to cement the film reputation. Overrated, boring and zany at places.


                
For a reason which escapes me, Kubrick (an extraordinary director) agreed to direct 2 movies of Kirk Douglas, which I am sure actually did all the work and, well, the movies are bad. These movies were both produced by Kirk's production company, and he of course was the great star. Kubrick even disowned one of these movies as not his own - and yes, Kirk's influence is THAT bad.Looking on the Spartacus page, I quote from the currently displayed comment: "As most are undoubtedly aware, this is the film that the director virtually expunged from his repertoire. But why did Stanley Kubrick really disown SPARTACUS(1960)? The answer can be summed up in two words: absolute control. [...] But you will notice that Bryna Productions not only financed SPARTACUS but also an earlier film directed by Kubrick, PATHS OF GLORY(1958). Bryna was Kirk Douglas' film company, and, as most filmgoers know, he was the star of both films. Besides having all the money to make the films, Douglas had artistic vision as well."This is very nicely said so I guess I need to add no more.Luckily, these two never made another movie together, and Kubrick made history by following up with Lolita, Dr. Strangelove, 2001, A Clockwork Orange, Barry Lyndon, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket and Eyes Wide Shut. In the meantime, Kirk made no history but instead did 58 more movies, of... shall we say... very sad quality.Overall, Spartacus is even more laughable than Paths of Glory because poor Kirk is a small guy and not even 2 of him would make up for the physique of a gladiator (yet he is Spartacus). But Paths of Glory is certainly more annoying as the sweet perfection, flawless intentions and pure soul of Kirk's character makes you want to puke - they are almost not human, let alone not possible for an army colonel whose job is - ultimately - to kill.


                
