This movie uses all the sappy, sentimental tricks in the book to sucker the audience into believing in poor, disadvantaged Forrest Gump: the sick mother, the bad legs, the innocence of incomplete mental capacity, the bullies, the girlfriend, etc.If that's as far as it went, however, I wouldn't be writing this. The dangerous thing about this movie is its sweeping generalizations and stereotypical portrayals of events, groups, and people in recent American history. Because the filmmakers have succeeded in getting the viewer to pull so strongly for Gump, they can then pass off their revisionist version of the past few decades with little objection from the viewer.Yes, it's just a movie, but images like these shape the way people think. The anti-war movement in the sixties and seventies and the Black Panthers, for example, were much more complex than portrayed in this movie. Using tiny, value-charged episodes to paint with such broad brush strokes, in settings that are designed to pull the viewer to Gump's side, is deceptive and manipulative.


                
Forrest Gump is a classic example of the sanctimonious garbage that people are willing to swallow simply because Tom Hanks is involved.  If the film had a more a satiric perspective maybe I could appreciate it.It begins appallingly and maniputively with a stereotypically Southern Sally Field and her idiot son 'FAUST' battling through tough times and meeting a whole lot of important people that real people like us will never ever meet. Elvis is one that is easily recalled. Through the remainder of the film we are supposed to endure one implausibility after another: Forrest meets the president, Forrest becomes a ping pong champion, Forrest becomes a Vietnam vet and Forrest discovers a cure for cancer! (well maybe that scene doesnt happen but i wouldnt be surprised if it was cut just prior to release). While people were going ga-ga at the way Forrest floats through life like a feather (a pathetic symbol that is ridiculously used in the film), i was seriously being sick.The central performance of Hanks is one that is truly embarrassing he is stiff, lifeless and codescending.  It seems as though Hanks' was studying children to breath life into Forrest, if this is so maybe he should put himself on their level rather than looking down at them as dribbling, pre pubescent morons. The remainder of the cast similarly sleepwalk through the one dimensional roles they are presented with,  only Gary Sinise deserves to garner any praise here.  The lines that spew forth from the characters' mouths were initially praised as incisive observations about our lives - WHAT!!!   They are dopey, uninventive and quite frankly wrong.  "life is like a box of chocolates- you never know what youre gonna get" - yes you do they are pictured on the back of the box.I would rather have a vital organ removed than recommend this dross to anyone over the age of five!


                
I usually do not write comments about films that I hate, but this film sucked so bad that I had to make an exception. This is one of the 10 worst films I have seen in my life. My profound apologies go out to those of you who loved this film, but I just couldn't stand it.Let's start with the plot, wait a minute, there is no plot. The only point of the film is seeing a not so bright man make his way through 30 years of history. Throughout his life, he fought in Vietnam, and saved Gary Sinise's life, who was very unappreciative of Forrest for doing so. He becomes a multi-millionaire in the shrimp business, he wins the international ping-pong tournament, meets 3 presidents, discovers the Watergate break-in, sees his mother pass away, and then wastes 3 1/2 years of his life literally running from coast to coast and back again. (right), and finally his one and only love comes back to him only because she is dying of cancer. Forrest Gump has been called the best feel good film of the 1990's, but I didn't feel good after seeing this film, and it's $350 million in the box office didn't inspire me to enjoy this film.The thing that surprises me the most about Forrest Gump was the fact that it took the Best Picture Oscar, even over Pulp Fiction, and The Shawshank Redemption. Two films that are so far superior to this one that I can't even believe it. For those of you who have not seen Forrest Gump, you're fortunate.


                
This has to be one of the worst films I've ever seen. Despite the best efforts of the actors, most of whom are very talented, the ridiculous and corny plot makes this a real chore to watch.You get the feeling that the director was trying to make a modern "Homer's Odyssey", but ended up instead with "Homer Simpson's Odyssey" - sans laughs. This movie offers lowest common denominator entertainment: patronization to those with learning difficulties, a twisted view on history, naive jingoism, and a nauseatingly contrived ending.When I first saw this movie I began wondering whether I was being too harsh on it. However, after talking to between fifteen and twenty other people, I've come to the conclusion that I was being quite fair. None of those I've spoken to liked this film.If you like bubble-gum then you will probably like Forrest Gump. If however, you like movies with some semblance of intelligence or real entertainment you will probably be disappointed by this movie.


                
Quite simply, this is one of the most despicable, offensive films ever made. It's central message is that if you shut up, do what you're told and never question anything, you will be rewarded. If you speak up for something you believe in, and it goes against authority, YOU WILL BE PUNISHED! (Like Robin Wright's character, who dies of AIDS). That this won Best Picture over the innovative Pulp Fiction is appalling (but then again, let's not forget that Titanic beat out LA Confidential, and The Truman Show wasn't even nominated) It deserves none of the accolades it recieved, and as for Tom Hanks' performance, well let's just say that any sitcom-level actor can play retarded with ease. A bad, bad, bad, bad film, and in the nastiest way possible.


                
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) has an IQ of 75 and plays a role in many aspects of American history, everything from Elvis to Watergate to the smiley face to the integration of the University of Alabama.  The message of the movie is that if you are stupid and you always do as you are told, then great things will just fall into your lap.  The movie is beyond farfetched.  The movie is absolutely ridiculous and unbelievable.  The basic premise of the movie is ludicrous.  There is no way to make it work.  This movie is a real insult to the intelligence of the viewer.  Tom Hanks is totally obnoxious in this movie.  I never liked him anyway.The movie glorifies stupidity and treats us, the viewers, like we are stupid too.  When Forrest's mother says Forrest is named after General Nathan Bedford Forrest, we see a flashback of General Forrest.  When Forrest talks about Lieutenant Dan's (Gary Sinise) family, we see flashbacks of Lieutenant Dan's relatives.  I understand!  You don't have to show me!  The movie begins and ends with a feather drifting around, as if we are too stupid to get the message that Forrest drifts through his life aimlessly.  I get the point!  I don't need to see an actual feather!The soundtrack is irritating.  The songs keep breaking into the movie in a very annoying manner.  And they are so literal-minded!  When Forrest is running, we get `Running on Empty.'  When Forrest goes home, we get `Sweet Home Alabama.'  When Jenny (Robin Wright) walks out a door, we get `Don't You Love Her As She's Walking Out the Door.'Forrest's mother (Sally Field) does something absolutely despicable to keep Forrest in a school for which he is clearly not qualified.  Are we supposed to admire Mrs. Gump for her devotion to her son?  I do NOT admire her!The movie never even tries to explain how a person with an IQ of 75 somehow manages to graduate from high school and college and join the military. The movie expects us to simply accept this fact without question.  And what happened to Jenny's sisters?  The movie mentions them once and then conveniently forgets all about them.The only good thing about this movie is Gary Sinise.  He plays a believable character and gives a good performance.


                
Forrest Gump is a film that essentially decides to take a fictional developmentally delayed Southerner and insert him into several decades of history, having him interject with everything from George Wallace's anti-integregation push to inspiring Elvis' famous dance moves. This is simply a history trivializing gimmick, that is repeated dozens of times throughout the film. Three things basically happen in the film; Forrest does something amazing, he interjects in a historical event, but boy does he miss Jenny. This is constantly repeated as well. The message; that the wholesome, slow, never questioning Forrest is a hero while the nonconformist free thinking Jenny becomes an aids infected slut is problematic. The depiction of Forrest by Tom Hanks is one note and mind numbingly sentimental. Forrest Gump is not so much a movie as a one note concept stretched out to a bloated running time. Stupid is as stupid does, and this movie certainly is stupid.


                
This is one of the worst movies of all time. It is nothing more than an expensive, intricate jigsaw puzzle and none of the characters have redeeming value with the possible exception of Forrest's mother. His love interest Jenny is a vile human being and at no time did I want Forrest to end up with her. The off putting message IS in fact that you can be an idiot and be successful, and in fact suggests that it might be better to be so. The idea that skills that many people find so difficult to master all come so easily to a simpleton like Forrest is offensive. Its saving grace is that the book is even worse. I don't understand what people love about this movie, which is vastly overrated.


                
I can understand how this anti-counterculture propaganda piece was popular with right-wingers, but how on Earth it managed to receive any Award recognition is beyond me.  The faults are too numerous to mention, but here are a few.  The length: The film teeters on endlessly, adding no new insights to an extremely limited title character who is much less than a "tabula rasa".  The "message":  What exactly is the point of this film? To glorify Stupidity, and I am NOT speaking of "simpleness" as I have often heard when discussing this disaster on celluloid.  The message seems clear, if you are a thinking human being, like the Robin Wright character, you are destined to suffer through such horrors as prostitution and AIDS.  A stripper/folksinger?  Please.  Lovely special effects aside, this meandering piece of treacle is not only boring, but offensive.  The dumbing down of America is clearly alive in this debacle of the cinema.


                
I love Tom Hanks, but the fact that film has enjoyed such popularity seems to me to be a sign of the endless American thirst for the milk of amnesia.  Anyone who cares about any of the historical events "depicted" in this film -- especially the war in Vietnam -- ought to be offended.  Anyone from the south ought to be offended, too, at the way Hanks' and others' southern accents are used as signifiers of imbecility, and that imbecility then romanticized.  And lastly, African-Americans ought to be outraged at the way Mykelti Williamson -- a very fine actor, by the by -- is used to slip the worst of stereotypes in under the "comic" door.  When we look back fifty years from now, this will be the "Bedtime for Bonzo" of its day.#1 on my list of all-time worst films.


                
If this movie were a puppy, it would jump on top of you, wag its tail, lick your face, roll over and present its belly for rubbing, follow you home and hump your leg. It tries so hard to ingratiate itself with what it considers the average American moviegoer of the time, it seems like it was written by a whole committee of campaigning politicians instead of a couple writers. It's the most hollow, contrived piece of baby-boomer mind candy ever projectile vomited onto the national consciousness. It's offensive to mentally retarded people because it patronizingly shows Gump (Tom Hanks) achieving a kind of generation-sweeping fantasy success that no human being, so-called-mentally-challenged or not, could ever hope to achieve, yet still places him in a fairly realistic world (the Viet Nam scenes, for example, were pretty true-to-life in their violence and bloodiness). It's offensive to intelligent viewers because it's storyline and message are as simplistic as the title character. The Dick Cavett Show clip in which John Lennon, sitting next to Gump, simply speaks the lyrics to his song "Imagine" was just plain stupid. It's like the writers think the public will think they're exalting them in some kind of new and profound way by making all the popular imagery and beliefs that we've been force-fed throughout our lives into the actual foundation of a person's life. It's like they're saying, "No, it's not just popular entertainment, it's the stuff that makes up your existence and defines you as a person, and that's all you need, so stop trying to challenge yourself, stop trying to think original thoughts." George Orwell was right in "1984" about the control and manipulation and subjugation of our wills and bodies and intellects, but the source is different. The worst of it isn't coming from the police or the military or the people we work for, but from our entertainment - movies and internet and T.V. - the very things that are supposed to be an escape, at least in our imaginations, from all that drudgery and bullish*t and hassle of the world, and that makes it more insidious and effective. The scene near the end of the movie that takes place in the early 80s in which Jenny (Robin Wright) tells Gump she has some kind of "new disease" is an insult to the audience. Are we supposed to feel clever and proud of ourselves for realizing it's AIDS? Would it be considered bad writing if she just said, "I have this new disease called AIDS"? Also, I heard that the producers spent seven million dollars to digitally erase Gary Sinise's legs instead of hiring a legless actor, which seems a little hypocritical considering the message of the movie that so-called-disabled people can do great things. This is the worst best-loved movie of all time!
This movie suffers from a bad case of "schizophrenia". The movie starts out as a story about a boy who overcomes a handicap with a strong single mother (played by Sally Field). The movie could have been then a "low key" version of Radio and made a statement about the obstacles one has to overcome. Instead, Zemeckis wanted to make a statement about American history from the 60s to the 80s. The result was a judgmental indictment without regard for the "complexities" involved. For example, we are supposed to think that Forrest Gump is so "dimwitted" that he doesn't care about civil rights, when a young black woman is trying to attend class. Is Zemeckis mocking civil rights? Then there is something about having to pee while shaking hands with LBJ. I guess some people find this funny, but it just appeared childish to me. Then, Gump goes off to Vietnam, leaving his "flaky", "irresponsible" girlfriend behind. You get tired easily of his girlfriend being portrayed as an irresponsible child. When he returns from 'Nam, he gets in a fight with some pretentious hippy, who is supposed to represent the entire anti-War movement. This really irritated me seeing all the complex issues of the 60s being used to subjectively attack the anti-war movement. After this slight, the movie moves on to a new story. Now Forrest is running for no reason. In the movie "Convoy", where this idea was borrowed from (switching from truckers to runners), there seemed to be a little bit of a political message. Forrest is just running for no rhyme or reason. By the end of the movie, I am just annoyed by his talk about a box of chocolate. This movie was extremely annoying, patronizing, and ignorant. Forrest Gump might of been a better, more honest movie, if Zemeckis stuck to the storyline, instead of pursuing a right-wing political agenda.
This is truly one of the worst movies ever made. Forrest Gump just happens to be at every event which was important for US history the last 30 years. Maybe he was responsible for the assassination of President Kennedy and Dr Martin Luther King. When they showed the first landing on the moon I expected him to show up and shake hands with Neill Armstrong.Moral of the film: act stupid and you will become the richest bore in the world, act normal and you will be punished in every possible way.Furthermore don't you think that Mr Gump is an alien from outer space? Nobody knows his father, his behaviour is robotic and super-human at the same time and Forrest jr will conquer the world. A kind of one man "Invasion of the Body-Snatchers".


                
This film clearly falls into the Love/Hate category. I think it's one where either you like the principle idea of optimism or you detest the idea that life is simply handed to you and all you have to do is throw it away.I for one hated this film. Not for the acting, which I didn't rate very highly, although Sinise put in a good performance in my view, I'm even a fan of Hanks other work but didn't particularly enjoy his performance here. No, I hated this film for its message which I found to be so central and pervasive that I couldn't enjoy any of the rest of the film's supposed qualities. The message I got from this film was that it makes no difference what you do in life, no matter how hard you work, how talented you are or how much you believe, if you just let life go past you, obey and be good then you will be a huge success. It's a belief I see more and more and one which I find abhorrent.Strangely enough it seems that this belief is becoming true. Make an average film with average acting and you too can have a huge box office success and win multiple Oscars.Perhaps this is then a truly brilliant and ironic piece of work. I still hated it.


                
A movie with this many comments obviously has great resonance. On the one hand, the movie is technically skillful, well-acted, and used then-advanced special effects to great advantage. As demonstrated by the comments here, it has charmed many viewers. On the other, the movie's values and message are clearly right wing: as many other reviewers point out, the plot rewards ignorance, unquestioning obedience, and laissez-faire corporatization (the marks of a good heart, apparently!), while it trivializes retardation to charm viewers with a saccharine vision of idiocy as goodness. It provides a right-wing allegory of recent US history by punishing the free-thinking Jenny and rewarding the mindless Forrest, named after Nathan Bedford Forrest, a founder of the Ku Klux Klan. Charming!I share the view of those who not entertained by the movie's right-wing allegory of Reagan-Bush era know-nothingism and historical blindness. As another commenter put it, "this is a movie for people who voted for Reagan" or for the Bushes. Overall, it's a remarkable document of Reagan-Bush era dominant thinking.So the basic situation with this movie is not too difficult to grasp: the movie is skillfully made and acted, and the wide success of its right-wing plot and message demonstrates that the American movie-going public largely shares these right-wing views.


                
This must be one of the most offensive movies ever made and I am truly appalled at the central theme, namely that being stupid makes you a better person.  Everything about this film is patronising and overwrought.  Can't believe that Tom Hanks (surely the most over-rated actor on the planet) won an Oscar for this pulp and if this was the best film of 1994 then god help us all.Don't waste your money at the video store - rent something (anything) other than this garbage.


                
Not being Tom Hanks' greatest fan, I avoided watching this film for several months after its release. This also gave me time for the hype to die down a little - but on the back of all the press and several positive comments I was still expecting to sit down to enjoy a good movie.I was mistaken. My reward? Two hours of praying for the credits to roll to take away the pain.To me this movie takes pleasure in displaying everything that is wrong with the Hollywood film industry - America's need to rewrite history to suit its own needs, its desire to peddle the "American dream" myth and the rewards given blindly to any movie that does the above (in the form of several Oscars - could anyone please explain to me the exceptional qualities of the movie that put it above anything else released that year?If only Forrest had kept running... into the sea


                
It really isn't a good sign when a film has you reaching for the sick bag after only a few minutes.This film features one of Tom Hanks's most insufferable performances, as the eponymous simpleton who embarks on an odyssey across America ( and Vietnam - what did they do to deserve such a fate?). The scene in which Forrest's mother dies inadvertently provided some comic relief after interminable scenes of Gump running across America, meeting Presidents, and maintaining a frankly creepy crush on childhood "sweetheart" Jenny.This nauseating piece of reactionary twaddle is something the CIA should consider as a means of extracting information from anyone they saw fit. I'd be screaming for mercy after 10 minutes.And what were the Academy smoking when they gave Hanks an Oscar for this turd? Avoid at all costs - but if you really must watch it a bottle of whisky may numb your senses into submission enough to allow a viewing.
This movie, nothing more than a cheesy scenes needlessly thrown together, truly has no heart or point to it, and is among the worst that I have seen. It attempts to do everything without focusing its attempts. Just like the way that a person who tries to multitask only does a semi-good job on either task, this movie does no good job at anything. If the movie were sped up, it would seem like a parody of Hollywood films. I am honestly shocked that anyone enjoyed this film. Not only did the Oscars like it, they liked it more than "The Shawshank Redemption" and "Pulp Fiction", both among the best movies of all time,and both released in the same year.


                
I almost walked out of the theater when I saw this movie. I usually love Tom Hanks, but his acting was wooden and his character was unbelievable. I was very disappointed when it received an academy award. The movie was supposed to be inspiring, but it's hard for me to be inspired when there's so little that's recognizable about a character. I think the reason the box of chocolates line was quoted so much was that that was all that was memorable about the movie. One "effect" that I especially disliked was the technique whereby Forrest Gump was included in old footage. In addition, I found myself worrying about Sally Field's career. There was a period in her career when she was in some excellent movies and this role as a pitiful mother definitely seemed like a step down.


                
I have to whole-heartedly agree with people who complained about the hype. I guess this movie was made to pander to the baby-boomers.  Why people insist that Tom Hanks is a great actor is beyond me.  Don't get me wrong, I thought he was brilliant on "Bosom Buddies," I just wish he would return to the small screen.  I remember Bill Maher on "Politically Incorrect" remarking on Mr. Hanks winning the Best Actor award for this movie.  He basically asked how hard was it to portray an idiot?  I suppose Tom Servo's diatribe on MST3k accurately summarizes my opinion of this flick. Something like, "Oh, so life is like a box of chocolates?  Oh yeah?  Well, I say life is like a c*** sandwich; the more bread you have, the less c*** you have to take!"  If only there was more bread in this movie!


                
First off let me be fair about the movie...nice special effects. Now with that said sit back and let me rip the hell out of this horrible movie. I personally think Paramount and Robert Zemekis were handing out their own batch of Jim Jones Kool Aid at every theater in America when this was out.From start to finish I dont think I have ever seen a movie (I say movie, because this is not a film) that is more predictable, melo-dramatic, or sterotypicable. How in the world this dreck won best picture is beyond me. I personally believe the Academy was doing Speilberg a favor and awarded his buddy Zemekis for making an overblown bad film. Lets face it if this movie only grossed 60 million it would have been cosidered a failure and would have won best special effects and thats IT!!! In my opinion this is Ishtar part 2, without Isabelle Adjani. This movie was a forshadow of things to come from Zemekis. Contact, Cast Away, What lies Beneath; although better films than Forrest Gump just proves Zemekis has sold his soul to the BIG HOLLYWOOD garbage machine. Come back Bob, you were once a promising director.


                
Perhaps one of the most overrated movies I have ever seen.  I fear for a society that adores and embraces a movie without looking beyond the surface. This movie is, at its core, a celebration of mediocrity.  Sort of like the current popularity of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," (which lets the average person feel smart because they can answer easy questions) this movie is designed to make the average person feel great about themselves for being nothing more than average, just like Forrest.I agree with the comments that infer a fascist or totalitarian subtext to this movie.  This movie is designed to sedate the viewer into feeling as if the world is fine and dandy just the way it is, and that they too, without doing anything at all to improve, educate or enlighten themselves, can be a "success" without trying.  A satisfied public is easy to control, for better or for worse . . .


                
The fact that a movie of this caliber is given such an overall high rating reflects the disintegrating state of our civilization. Tom Hanks, as always, is obnoxious and unlikeable. How this guy garners such critical acclaim is totally baffling. It's almost like he didn't cut his acting teeth on the immortal "Bosom Buddies." Oh, wait, he has become a brash public believer in the impossible Oswald-acted-alone fairy tale. That always helps careers....To anyone that has a loved one with development difficulties, or has worked with handicapped people, Forest Gump is a pathetic and unrealistic caricature. Hanks's voice for the character is grating and unlike any I've ever heard, in the south or from any developmentally delayed individual. What kind of ridiculous accent is that? Even Rosie O'Donnell's laughable performance as a mentally challenged person was more believable than Hanks.The plot is beyond preposterous. All those famous people, all the crucial events of the times (at least by Hollywood historical standards), and this one very challenged guy just happens to be in the right place at the right time, over and over again. I love fantasy and far fletched plots, but this is not remotely possible under any circumstances.Again, those with personal life experiences in this area, know all too well just how horribly the handicapped and developmentally delayed are treated by all too many "good" and "upright" citizens. Gump seemed to avoid most of that, when he wasn't altering history. This film makes a mockery of those whose real disabilities make every day a real challenge. It's typical Hollywood, but even worse than usual. Maybe with another actor in the lead, who could give even a somewhat acceptable performance, this film might have been better.


                
first of all, I've only seen this movie once, but I was actually very offended by it.  It takes itself far too seriously.  The commentary embedded in the film's core, relating to the 60s revolution and drug use in general, are shockingly naive, reactionary, and simple-minded.  This movie likes to think that if it can pass itself off as simple, it can pass of its truths as "simple truths" much like its foggy-headed main character.  Not so.  It's just simple, in a kind of idiotic way that makes us underestimate the complexities of our social history (speaking as a 23 year old, what do I know?, but I've been through a little bit) and come out with a shiny happy 90s answer to all these issues.  This movie is for people who voted for Reagan.


                
