I recently saw this film again and was interested to see whether it had improved with time or I had mellowed in my opinion of it. Not a chance! The film looks even more tritely prelapsarian than ever. Basically the film is an unashamedly reactionary piece of brain candy floss, sickly and insubstantial. In this films universe Simplicity = Good Social change = Bad. Agents of social change = very bad and therefore they must contract AIDS. If it wasn't so nauseating it would be funny. Unfortunately, the Academy took it seriously and it picked up Oscars, when they should have booed it off the screen. Cynically sickly and morally bankrupt its a disgrace.Incidentally Jamie Russell in his book "Vietnam War Movies" wrote; "Forrest Gump is Hollywood at its most horrendous...Whats most worrying is that the British Board of Film Classification saw fit to give this evil little film a U certificate. How can we protect our children against such insidious brainwashing" How accurate an insight.


                
Because my English is not quite up to the task, I'm going to borrow the words of another reviewer from the UK: "a nauseating piece of reactionary twaddle". Frankly I couldn't put it better - this is right wing propaganda at its worst; all the more so because it's wrapped in (mostly) competent directing and acting (although Gary Sinise's "performance" is frankly irritating). Sorry let me rephrase and apologize to right-wing people, who are entitled to their political views: this movie is (bordering on) fascist propaganda.There is so much to love about America, "Forrest Gump" brings out the worst in it. An insult to anyone's intelligence - I hope it gets remembered as the "Leni Riefenstahl's movie" of the Reagan area.


                
How did this ripoff of "Being There" ever get to be so loved?  People say it's proof that a decent, honest man can succeed despite lack of intelligence.  They're wrong.  The movie is proof that luck is everything: hope your friend invests all your money in Apple and not Atari; hope your shrimp boat is the only one out at sea when a storm breaks; hope that you don't die of shock when you're luckily shot in the buttocks and not in the back; hope you don't get AIDS from your wife.  This movie is also politically reactionary -- all who rebel against societal convention lose their legs, do drugs, beat their girlfriends, or die young.  In addition, the product placement in this film (Nike and Dr. Pepper) is shameless.  An emotionally manipulative film that is very, very empty.


                
More hollow patriotic nonsense from Hollywood, if Zemeckis is going to insist on trying to rewrite the past could he at least make it interesting as in the first two Back to the Future films.The moral of the film is ultimately that despite how stupid you might be, or whatever historical connections with the KKK you have, if you play sports and join the army you can be a good old all American hero. hardly fascinating stuff. I watched this film in theaters in the US and people were cheering at the Vietnam scenes and when Forrest gets his share at Apple Mackintosh. Saw this film again in Britain and the same scenes were greeted with the deserved apathy and boredom. I think that says it all.If you are interested in seeing a very patronizing and shallow movie about recent American history, then this film is for you.
Well, if you are in the mood for a hollow "feel good movie" this will fit the bill. But if you are looking for substance, or a film that makes you think, this film will leave you knowing you can never get the time back you just spent watching this movie. The soundtrack probably causes movie-goers to connect to the film more than the flimsy plot.At the time this film was released, Hanks was perhaps the most sought after leading man. In some ways, it is as though the studios were on a quest to turn him into his generation's Jimmy Stewart. Hanks is a solid actor, and has acted in many excellent roles, but this is not one of them. But this film certainly helped launch the "Bubba Gump Shrimp Company Restaurant" found at tourist traps all across the United States. In many ways, that is this film's legacy - made for theater tourist looking for a vacation for the mind.


                
There are two kinds of people in the world, my friend. Those who dig Forrest Gump, and those who don't. I don't. If "Forrest Gump" is truly viewed as some kind of inspirational cinematic experience, then America is in a lot of trouble. Forrest Gump is no masterpiece of cinema, not even by a long-shot. It is largely a formulated overly sentimental contrivance that simply plays too well into American saccharine tastes, mostly pop melodrama for the sake of pop melodrama. This was obviously made for the same audience that likes "Sleepless in Seattle" and "Lucky You".Certainly, I don't have a problem with the idea of a feeble-minded main character from which to tell a story. ("Rain Man", a similar idea, is a far superior story to and much more real than the silliness of "Gump".) I will concede Hanks' portrayal of Forrest is no less than brilliant, and he was deserving of the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1994. But was this film really deserving of Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Writing? Is this film really in the same league as "Schindler's List", "Ghandhi", "The Hurt Locker", and "Platoon"? I don't think so. A contrived stooge, a late 20th century throw-back to Lenny of "Of Mice and Men" ("Tell me about the rabbits, George"), enmeshed in a series of sentimentalized vignettes is nothing more than contrived farce. Does Gump represent the American ideal or fictionalized empty-headed-ness? Forrest Gump only mirrors American's insatiable appetite for the overly sentimental. Instead of telling a true human story, such as "Rain Man", about the struggles of a man verging on feeble-mindedness, the filmmakers decided to sentimentalize him and put him into the most ridiculous and unbelievable of situations. Because of the fantastical nature of the entire story, I think "Gump" does a disservice to those with intellectual disabilities, although I will admit it does so inadvertently. "Rain Man" I think achieves quite the opposite.So many of the scenes in this movie made no sense. In the opening sequence when young Forrest's legs are in braces and, inspired by the "girl next door", he begins running down a Midwest dirt road, and his braces magically come off. Oh brother. Only Hollywood could imagine something that rings of a bad "Saturday Evening Post" illustration from the 1950's. Not even Norman Rockwell would have painted something quite so contrived. Of course the "running theme" will recur toward the end of the the film. Later, despite his feeble-mindedness, he's drafted into the army where he puts his rifle together faster and better than anyone in training. He's a feeble-minded genius. Maybe an idiot-savant?During the course of much of the film, Gump ends up involved in the most unlikely of situations. He plays football under a legendary college coach, goes to Vietnam, wins a congressional medal, meets John F Kennedy, becomes a ping-pong champion, meets John Lennon, informs on the Watergate burglars, and ends up investing his ping-pong winnings into the Apple Computer company. And then goes on a pointless "run" where all these people run after him. Or maybe this last part is realistic. Not about Forrest running but that people would follow. Obviously everybody followed Gump to the box office. And then to the Academy Awards. It's a wonder the filmmakers didn't have him take the next logical step and have him run for president. Raymond Babbitt (the autistic character from "Rain Man" played by Dustin Hoffman) could be his running mate.The only saving grace of the film is some of the Vietnam sequences, and his relationship with Lut. Dan played by Gary Sinese, who is the other standout talent of the film. Gump's tour of duty and his relationship with Dan were far more substantive than all the rest of the movie put together. I think it would have been far more interesting and insightful if the story was about a feeble-minded man forced to fight in Vietnam rather than adding all the other asinine episodes that made me say to myself, "Oh come on..." And I liked aspects of Gump's relationship with Dan, and I wished that had been more developed rather than Gump popping up in high spots of American history. When Gump reports the Watergate burglary, I just about lost my popcorn.The recurring theme of "Gump" is "life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.". As I have never liked most of the candies in those boxes (I always end up with the slimy gooey ones), I guess I am not the right viewer to appreciate the wonders of "Forrest Gump". I typically avoid those boxes of candies just for that reason. I want something that has a little more meat to it, a little more realism, and a little more honesty. Not just gooey caramel. Whoever wrote Forrest Gump was eating a box of these candies and decided to make a movie about it. The problem with those box of chocolates is that you know exactly what you're going to get and that's why I avoid them.


                
After all the hype and promotion, I was disappointed at the lack of content. The scenes of nudity and sexuality were unnecessary and made a film which could have been great an embarrassment for those of us who prefer to stay out of other folks' bedrooms.  The acting by Mr. Hanks, however, was superb. (The only reason I gave it a "3" instead of a "1")  He made me empathize with, and love, Forrest.  His portrayal of this gentle man was the bright spot in this fatally flawed movie.


                
Forrest Gump is a bad, bad movie.  It is an idiot going around falling backwards into heroism, fortune, and friendship in a very unrealistic fashion.  It has no importance to society whatsoever. It adds nothing to one's personal enlightenment and does not make you think in the least.  I suppose it is supposed to be a "feel good" film but it is too long and boring to be that.  The fact that it has gotten so much praise notwithstanding  winning Best Picture just makes me hate this film even more.  If it is a feel good movie, let it be a feel good movie, but don't try to pass it off as some monument of film making and give it the same award as Schindler's List received and Saving Private Ryan got screwed out of.  This movie is as retarded as Forrest himself is.


                
I know I'm not the only one who hated this movie. In fact I'm not even the only person in my family that hated this movie, my mom and sister did too, and I have met other people who hated this movie throughout the years since it came out. Unfortunately, it hasn't been too many people at all.Enough of that, I of course looked and heard why people seem to like this movie so much. But I couldn't disagree more. The whole plot of the movie is ridiculous -- how a mentally challenged person could go through or cause all these historical events and fads. For example, creating the smiley face, the s*** happens bumper sticker, catching the people in the Watergate scandal, winning a medal of honor, becoming a ping-pong champion (like an American can ever win that!), becoming an all-American athlete for football, running across the country, falling in love with a drug-addicted stripper (well i guess this one's believable as he is mentally challenged), speaking out against the Vietnam war after he won the medal of honor for it, etc. STUPID, STUPID, STUPID. Running some more, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID. Then just quitting for no apparent reason, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID!!!!OK, now the good parts of it. Yes there are some things I liked about the movie. The cinematography was beautiful (and I'm a big fan of this as I believe it helps set the tone of a movie), but it's useless because there is nothing for it to enhance. I also liked Gary Sinise in this; Lt. Dan is actually a cool character. And of course, the soundtrack is awesome...Now only if we can mute everyone but Gary Sinise and the music, I might be able to sit through this movie again. One can only hope...Now back to the not so good to outright horrible. I never read the book by Winston Groom so I can't say if they did the book justice or not, and I really don't care. I mentioned how much I hated the basic premise for this movie, but the dialog doesn't help either, with it's cheesy axioms and pathetic southern accents (I used to live in TN, and I don't remember the accents being that bad). Whatever, I can live with the accents, but I prefer the exaggerated ones in "Fargo" (I thought they sounded cool). Anyway, now onto the acting: Tom Hanks wasn't great in this movie at all. How hard is it to play somebody that doesn't change from one scene to the next. He walks, talks, and acts the same in every scene of the movie. This had to have been Hanks' easiest performance to play...and it won him his second Oscar. But of course this isn't the first time that's happened. See Dustin Hoffman in "Rain Man," but at least that was a good movie.I like a lot of Robert Zemeckis's films by the way to include "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" "Contact" and even "Beowulf," but this one, he asked way too much for me to believe. I actually think the events of "Star Wars 1-6" were more likely to have occurred than the events in this movie. A lot has been said about his right wing political agenda; I don't care; it's his movie, he can do what he wants with, but I don't have to agree. Also that this movie is stereotypical to blacks. I always wondered what African Americans thought about some of the stuff in it as I don't think it was meant to be racist, but some of it kind of came off like it. I guess it's up to them to decide.Now onto the last part of my comment which doesn't have anything to do with why I like/dislike any part of the movie. I've been called a Communist, un-American, and other worse things for hating this movie. Really what is the point. I don't put other people down for not liking movies I like. Everybody's is entitled to their own opinion. Furthermore, I thought I lived in (and fought for) a country where I can like or dislike whatever movie I want. I don't like movies because everyone else does, and just because Hollywood or the media says that a movie is good, doesn't mean that it is. In fact I tend to disagree with Hollywood a lot. Anyway, isn't having to like something that's jammed down my throat communist in itself? Anyway, if I had to choose between becoming a communist and liking this movie, I would choose communism without a second thought or regret.If I was rating this movie on how much I actually liked it, I would give it a -infiniti just on the stupid screenplay alone. Too bad, it took awhile for "The Shawshank Redemption" to get popular, or that would have swept the Oscars that year.
After becoming increasingly disenchanted throughout this seemingly endless film, I began to wonder what the message, if any, was. It appeared to me that the theme was that it didn't matter if you were an idiot, things would work out fine so long as you are American and your hearts is pure. Some time after seeing the movie I read extracts from the original book which was clearly of more satirical intent. Forrest Gump is a modern day Candide living out a pseudo-panglossian idyll where everything works out for the best (in this best of all possible worlds.) While the book clearly highlights the absurdity of this, the movie takes a superficial view that illustrates the situations without any apparent understanding of irony.


                
In 1994, a mega hit movie came out. Millions of people went to see it in theaters, and adored the lovable main character; Forrest Gump. Forrest Gump later received six academy awards (including best picture and actor), and was even ranked as one of the hundred best American films of all time by the AFI. I pose a question to you, the reader; is something wrong with me? Because Forrest Gump, in my eyes, is, possibly, one of the hundred WORST movies that I've ever seen. Forrest Gump boasts a FAIR performance by Tom Hanks, starring as the title role. That, perhaps, is the best part of this movie, and it was only par. In terms of the story, which could be the worst part of this movie, it is completely pointless. It may be entertaining to watch, but, in the end, it is two and a half hours of a retard (75 I.Q.) prospering in life. This could be a really great movie, but there was no struggle involved. Forrest Gump simply had life and all of his achievements come rushing towards him. Forrest Gump advertises the idea that you can just slide through life effortlessly; that is not true. All in all, Forrest Gump is just a big, overrated disappointment.


                
The first half of the film is OK, the second half one of the most tedious experiences imaginable.  Quite possibly the most overrated movie of all time.  "Pulp Fiction" was robbed for "Best Picture."  This is one of those films that people feel required to love because the main character is "slow."


                
To tell the truth,I don't agree with certain views expressed in this movie and I thought the characters were stereotypical.I have to admit Tom Hanks is a great actor but this is not his best movie.That honour goes to The Green Mile.But Forrest Gump was an overrated movie because it won the best picture oscar among excellent and intelligent movies like The Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction.I thought the movie dragged on and the only high point of the movie was Tom Hanks' excellent portrayal of Forrest Gump.You can watch this movie once,not more than that.


                
The most dishonest, hypocritical movie ever made.  It disguises its right-wing political message by using Gump to cover up its commentary on the 60s--which is profoundly nasty and negative.  He is a hero because he can ignore all the social evils around him--is that not a commentary?  I understand that the moviemakers denied they were trying to send a message. They lie.  I'll take my political propaganda straight, please.


                
In Philadelphia Hanks played a gay man dieing of AIDS fired because of his sexuality. It took courage to take the part and Hanks used to to open the heats and minds minds of many viewers. When I first saw Gump I thought it was sentimental and cloyingly sweet. After talking to a friend who works with the handicapped my impression changed. Underneath the sugar coating the movie presents the idea that if people with IQs below 90 wanted to they could get into the army (Gump would never have gotten into the army), be war heroes, start successful businesses and become rich. It makes believable the idea that these people need no help from the rest of us. Hanks is cute, beguiling and an altogether 'lovable little retard'. The image it presents of real handicapped people who struggle to get by in our world is callous and degrading.


                
I was one of those people who had heard all the hype about Forrest Gump and then saw the movie. This movie is too overrated. Yes Tom Hanks pulls off a great performance as this character and it is pretty much a great history lesson, but I dont think it deserved all the awards and acclaim it received. In all I think only Tom Hanks deserved the award for best actor. We all know it's very hard to pull off a performance like that. Look at Sean Penn in I Am Sam....terrible. I wont go into what it's about cause we all know it. I know there are many out there who feel this was a great movie and I wont argue with you, you are all entitled to your opinion. To me I thought Pulp Fiction should have gotten it all that year. It had a lot of things Forrest Gump didnt. But yes there were things Gump had that Pulp Fiction didn't.


                
many people love this movie,some even calling it a work of art.however,i must respectfully disagree.i found the movie uninspiring,at best,at mostly one long bore.if you like your movies heavy on sap,you will like this movie.this movie at times felt like one long "i'm okay, your okay,we're all okay"inspirational speech.if i want motivational advice,i'll go see Anthony Robbins or some other guru. all kidding aside other than the film's heavy handedness,there are a few good thing about it.the acting was good,the special effects were decent.the best thing about the movie,however is its 1960's and 70's soundtrack.despite it good points,the movie is not worth recommending. 3/10


                
I know a lot of people find inspiration in this movie and I would never say that that's wrong, but this movie honestly makes a mockery of the very real, important social justice movements of the 60s. To suggest that America transformed itself not because of the hard work of many people but the actions of one white man who literally had no idea what he was doing, or why he was doing it, or what any of it meant is utterly ridiculous. We do not stumble our way through history in this country and I'm sorry but a movie in which the protagonist barely understands the consequences of his actions is not compelling.


                
Probably the most over-rated movie of the 1990's. Who is Forrest Gump? What is inside his head.., or heart, for that matter? All we can establish is that he is unintelligent enough to make it in the army. Is he handicapped? Not? He is like an anti-person, whom everything happens to, instead of making things happen.., until he acquires inspiration and ambition out of the blue and goes on an impossible running tour. I have not been able to discern an actual point this movie is trying to make, nor establish just who this mentally-challenged millionaire really is. Maybe he appeals to so many people because they identify with him? That is a truly scary thought, but apparently, it seems to be the case. A pointless, stupid movie.A salute to powerlessness and vacuousness.


                
With this movie Hollywood tried to create something like an independent movie. In my opinion they failed. It's like adding lots of elements people like about independent movies and expecting something meaningful. If you liked this one you should really have a look on some serious movies.On the other hand it is a good thing they at least tried to create something more meaningful. They tried to create something you could really call art. Maybe they have been out of ideas, maybe they were experimenting and the financial success and it's board recognition are good signs. Just please don't create a movie if you don't really have anything to talk about.


                
Despite the 8.7 average rating on IMDb, the many praising reviews it receives and the good opinions of my friends, I wasn't really expecting this film to be anything special. However as it is such a highly regarded film, I thought it was probably worth watching, even if I wasn't going to enjoy it. Why I knew I wasn't going to enjoy it; it won six ocars but other films that were also released that year have since become more well loved (e.g. pulp fiction, the shawshank redemption), I'm not a really big fan of Tom Hanks as an actor (shock horror!) and Robert Zemeckis is definitely my least favourite director, creating films that (in my opinion anyway) have no real aim other than to make some cash. So how did it compare to my pre-judgements? Just as I thought really. There were many problems I found in this movie; to start with the camera angles and the camera movement made the film hard to look at visually, as the people and object moving looked very unnatural. Another problem is that aside from Forrest, all of the characters seem one dimensional as they were all extremely underwritten. Leading on from that, for me, the script is a major problem; the dialogue is incredibly tedious, every line made me sigh with frustration, but that isn't the main problem with the dialogue; I watched the film with friends and every few seconds I heard them laughing at the things Forrest says, however that's something I couldn't get into, I felt that there is something very malicious about laughing at a man with some kind of mental handicap. Though the dialogue isn't the only problem with the script, the whole story is beyond unrealistic. Although it isn't unlikely for someone to drift through life and for things to just happen to them, it is unlikely for the majority of them to be such good and life changing things, especially for a man with a mental disability, from a non-privileged background, at this time period. I also find it a little bit sneaky that they never mention what is wrong with Forrest, it seems to be they did this so they could include some parts of the plot, for example him having sex with Jenny and they her having a child, that I doubt would happen in real life to people in his condition. However, none of this is exactly enraging for me, the only thing that really makes my blood boil, is the Vietnam sequence. Films that have been made about the Vietnam war have been made with the soul purpose to let audiences know, that war is hell and war will destroy you, but Forrest's narration tells us that his experience in Vietnam was fun, which goes against everything films like Platoon, The Deer Hunter, Full Metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now stand for and aside from a few seconds of footage, nothing shows the horrors of the war, it's unrealistic and highly insulting to the people who fought in the war. Though as I have given it 3/10, there obviously must be a few plus points, there are about three. The effects that put Forrest in with archive footage and very well done and well edited, Gary Sinise is very good in an underwritten part, the fact he didn't win an Oscar is a travesty and there are some huggable children in it. Though that doesn't make up for the obvious flaws in this movie.
Every liberal ought to see this movie and have their faith restored in America. Forrest Gump starts running after kicking off his braces left from a polio infection and never stops. His task is to overcome his borderline IQ, 75, just below the edge of normalcy and his trek takes him on a course through the Vietnam Era, the war, the unrest and the post - Vietnam malaise.This is an excellent movie for a liberal to reinforce the twin pillars of liberalism: (a) universal guilt shared by all except liberals and (b)moral superiority of liberalism.On such sublime matters, Forrest Gump however is clueless. He thinks of the Vietnam War as a long walk in the jungle and he's waiting on a check for 'the million dollar wound' that got him out of the combat zone. He visits the White House to receive a medal and inadvertently addresses a peace rally the same day.He never loses sight of his objective his true love Jenny who has turned away from values of any kind and embraced the drug culture of the Vietnam era. As much as Forrest is guilty of living in wishful thinking so too are the admirers of this movie.As I see our liberal friends watching this with moist eyes, they're living in the delusion that just somewhere there must be legions of young men like Bubba and Forrest ready to go over yonder as clueless as Forrest.I gave this film a "3" because I did enjoy the liberal world's perception of people on the outside of its snobbish feeling of moral superiority.
Forrest Gump is a fish out of water tale that we've seen many times. Granted Mr. Hanks performance elevates the film but not nearly enough to save the bizzare issue this film has with tone. Not to mention odd performances from the rest of the cast.


                
I'm glad so many loved this film. And found it life altering. But, truth be told, I simply could not!!!!! I found Tom Hanks annoying through out. From his Over-Acting the Part, to his fake accent. I usually enjoy his films. But, for me, this one was a Bust!!!Sally Field was a breath of fresh air from beginning to end. Which is why I gave the film a 3 and not a1. I never understood why this film scored so high.


                
This is the kind of movie they make you watch when your in high school. Like close to the end of the school year and the teachers are looking to kill some time, so whip out the school TV and DVD player press play and disappear for two hours. Forrest Gump reminds me how far American public schools have fallen, surely those hypothetical teachers could have found a better movie to show. Look hard through the school library's pile of DVD's, there has got to be something better than Forrest Gump, wait what was that, Barbarella? Yeah you can show fifteen year-olds Barbarella, it only has tittie at the beginning Romeo And Juliet has more nudity, fine, not Barbarella, what about that Charlie's Angels 2, well of course its garbage but its watchable....


                
