...but nothing much to the rest of us. And since the rest of us are many many more we can't be all that wrong. 'Big' in comparison is like a milestone in the history of film-making. I mean think about it. 'I wish i were BIG!'. Inspiring. Universal. Forrest Gump on the other hand is despite the budget a mediocre film about an entire nation catching their reflection in the mirror. And staying there forever in awe of themselves. Wish to be small again.


                
(r#79)I would lie if I said that Forrest Gump isn't an extremely well made movie. From the acting, to the feel-good story, to the pacing, comic timing, and fantastic soundtrack, it is one of the best movies ever made. Tom Hanks is good as the titular character, and Gary Sinise and Robin Wright Penn make for a strong supporting cast. Robert Zemeckis' direction hits all the right notes. The movie is also visually beautiful. So why did I only give it a 7 out of 10? Well, as well produced, directed and acted as the film is, there is an underlying cynicism that doesn't work well with the movie's innocent and good-hearted nature. The "heart-breaking" scenes become more and more obvious and deliberate with each viewing. Don't get me wrong, this is a great feel-good story and I did love it when I was younger. Maybe I am just growing more desensitized to this kind of warm-hearted, mushy stuff. The problem probably lies more with me than with the film itself, but I still can't help but feel that Zemeckis was a bit too elaborate. There are scenes that, when you're re-watching the film, seem written specifically to make the audience crack up in tears. It borders on being manipulative, rather than letting the audience think for itself.The movie could have worked as a serious drama. I'm a sucker for movies about mentally challenged men and I loved both "Sling Blade" and the more obscure "Den Enfaldige Mördaren". In the former, Billy Bob Thornton delivered a total class act. He embodied his character, Karl, to the point where you couldn't possibly compare him to his role in, say, Bad Santa. In "Den Enfaldige Mördaren", Stellan Skarsgård was also utterly believable. But I just can't buy Hanks in this role, even if it's probably the one he'll be remembered for. Thornton and Skarsgård, in their respective roles, *were* their characters. They were as human and real as you and me. Hanks' performance is a pure live-action cartoon, a caricature of a mentally challenged man. He's just too goody-goody. Too pure of heart. Too goofy and lovable. He's a man with no dark sides, and as such he's completely unbelievable. I did laugh at Gump's cute lines and catchphrases. I did feel for him when he got bullied around and when he finally got the girl in the end. But I wonder if anyone actually bought Gump as a character rather than just "Tom Hanks playing a mentally challenged guy".Another problem is that the movie refuses to take any real risks. There is nothing controversial about the subject matter and nothing really inventive about the movie-making (although it is quite an achievement to fit an entire lifetime into a single film!) 'Gump' is not a movie that pushes the envelope in any way.This is still a very enjoyable movie and first-timers will probably love it. It took a lot of viewings for me before my strong feelings for it started to falter. On the surface, "Gump" is one of the best feel-good movies ever made. But if you read between the lines, it is a cynical and very elaborate movie, nearly manipulative, and specifically designed to make you laugh, cry and pay for repeated cinema viewings. At least Hanks and Sinise do their best.


                
People seem of two minds about this film: it either moves them to tears or to nausea.  But in reality, it is a well-made film with some strong performances but not more than that.  The core of this movie that is as simple minded as the title character; the facile speciousness of the movie's reactionary attacks on matters I agreed with made me realize just how shallow the movie's entire argument is.But beyond that, the movie is very well made; Hanks's performance could have been annoying in other hands but works well here.  Sinise was excellent as well.  Robin Wright's performance was adequate - I try not to blame her for the movie's implied argument that the social movements of the 60's and 70's were a working out of childhood neuroses - but never really stuck to me. The technical aspects of the film are outstanding, and the movie has a lot of laughs and tears despite its empty headed core.If it helps anyone, this is my wife's favorite movie.  But then, she fell asleep during Casablanca, so....


                
There's something of a tradition in fiction of using the idiot savant to hold the mirror up to society and reflect its foibles. The figure of the Good Soldier Schweik was one I remember being introduced to in my early years at university. Forrest Gump is also a soldier for much of this picture's duration, but the satire is diluted to no more than a few bum and fart jokes in the presence of the great and the good.Maybe it's this evasiveness that caused this film to attract such a storm of criticism from the Left when it first appeared. Seven years on, it's hard to see the film's reluctance to take on biting social satire as something it deserved to be damned for. More likely, it's the film's unflattering portrayal of the counter culture of the sixties that made its baby boomer critics touchy. For the most part, it's a gentle and appealingly whimsical picture. Australian - and more particularly, Melbourne - viewers will recognize in it something of the spirit of Michael Leunig's cartoons. In keeping with this spirit is the one aspect of this film that could be regarded as controversial, which is its scepticism toward causes.
Tom Hanks is excellent. It says something about the rest of the world's stereotypes about American culture that one of America's biggest movie stars can hold the screen for hour after hour while remaining the most self-effacing of actors. There is charm and real emotion in his performance. If the film sometimes veers into sentimentality (and it does) it is not Hanks' fault. The film isn't a masterpiece. As I say, it does sometimes lapse into sentimentality, and it annoys me that, like Rain Man, it can't acknowledge disability without conferring on its disabled characters superhuman talents of one kind or another. And, as I'm sure others have pointed out, the trick shots involving Gump's encounters with various historical personages had already been done - to much sharper comic effect - by Woody Allen in Zelig. However, for me the film's greatest specific failing is that it doesn't do more with the character of Gump's love, Jenny, who doesn't do much more in this film than turn up every half hour or so and look beautiful. I thought there was scope there to explore the nature of their mutual dependence more deeply, and to illuminate both characters in the process. To some extent this does happen with the character of Lieutenant Dan, a nicely drawn character who provides the right sort of counterweight to Gump.I don't expect that I will want to see this film again and again, the way I keep going back to Leunig's cartoons, which have a kind of natural wisdom-in-innocence that Zemeckis' film sometimes visibly strains to achieve. It's not a film that particularly goes anywhere, not that it really means to. But, a little to my surprise, I did enjoy watching it.


                
I thought this movie had lot a history in it. It made it funnier for the audience to watch and the way he survived and excelled in each of the obstacle was amazing but the stars it got out of 10 was the real reason to watch this movie. As the movie progressed, the story kept of circulating on forest. It clearly had much of the history in it and the movie is gigantic in scale but i found this movie not that attractive as described. The 7 is due to the gigantic portion of the movie not due to the acting. I guess people like war and things like that therefore it managed that much stardom. The movie could have gave some shade to another artist as well not much but as supporting effort.


                
This awesome movie is about an innocent man who represents how the world should be: he's loyal, humble, honest, he would never cheat or lie. He does everything with good heart and reaches success at the most important tasks of life.Only in America he could live such an interesting life: meet Elvis Presley, President Kennedy, John Lennon... He goes to Vietnam's war and he does everything following his heart. He becomes an American hero. Gary Sinise is a great American actor in his best performance too. He served in Vietnam with Forrest and was also a hero, protecting his men and fighting for his country.All in all this is a must-see movie for everyone, specially for non- Americans, so we can enjoy American culture and icons, as well as learn some American history, which is very useful.
Entertaining (but long!), however the message seems to be "be simple, don't question authority and life will be fine, be angry, politically active, and come to a bad end".  Not quite the message I think is healthy to spread!


                
Entertaining comedy/drama/fantasy has a lot to keep you busy (and excellent special effects), but doesn't measure up to its epic pretensions. It would've benefited from sticking to comedy and eschewing sentiment. Instead it pushes every button imaginable to jerk a reaction out of the viewer, and tries to dictate your emotions with a pushy music score. The movie lapses into silliness at times, and is self-indulgent for the last hour. Director Robert Zemeckis attempts to evoke each era by illustrating its clichés and by scoring it to a procession of over-familiar songs that serve as lazy, embarrassingly obvious signifiers of their times (Sweet Home Alabama, Hound Dog, Blowin' in the Wind, California Dreamin', For What it's Worth, On the Road Again, Mrs. Robinson, etc.). I love a lot of those songs, but they've become clichés themselves by now. Tom Hanks is funny and convincing in the title role, but Forrest is too much of an invincible saint to be very interesting.


                
I think I've seen this film now about five or six times, the most of them when I was between 10 and 15, and now from a little distance it seems not illogical. "Forrest Gump" definitely is a film very suited for children with much of its not too subtle humour and you can recognize that it is generally made for a large, large audience with all its political correctness and clean showing of sexuality (I mean you can't offend anyone, can't you?). The background sound is provided by a huge amount of popular classics of the time. It's also funny how the film connects different historical occasions and persons and weaves them into the overall story, what makes a big part of the films charm. This film has heart, that's why I still like it, although there are some negative qualities that are reaching surface more and more for me. The main thing is that it's just too overly soapy dramatized. And after multiple viewings also Tom Hanks' acting starts going really on my nerves.
I just saw this one. Though it was corny and I can see why many disliked it, I couldn't stop laughing. Whether the jokes were good or bad, I laughed and that is good enough for me to call it good. I was surprised as well by how well done it was. The quality was excellent. I guess if I was in a bad mood, this movie wouldn't be half as good, but I thought it to be enjoyable and would recommend it for the parents and kids to enjoy. Granted, everything in it is historically incorrect but that's the fun part! I give Tom Hanks a lot of credit for making this a good flick, but I wouldn't go so far as to say it was the best movie of all time and a beautiful piece of art, but a movie doesn't have to be beautiful to be good.


                
It has one of the best screenplay, storyline, acting, direction,casting. Tom hanks was at his prime as he won an oscar again next year. All the cast delivers and fulfils the character's requirements. But it actually promotes the value of giving up and run away. Run away is the main highlight of movie. The character's girlfriend tells him to run whenever he faces a problem. Thats a wrong thing according to me, as it promotes giving up. I won't support it.
But one can watch the movie for a good story, acting and screenplay.
I think the story was quite different from other movies and the characters performed well and justify their characters.


                
Must watch, get the popcorn and relax and play this and you will enjoy life a little more


                
Nothing to say about this Movie-Hopping more just like this :)Hello. My name's Forrest--Forrest Gum.Do you want a chocolate? I could eat about a million and a half of these. My mama always said Life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're going to get. Those must be comfortable shoes. I bet you could walk all day in shoes like that and not feel a thing. I wish I had shoes like that. My feet hurt . Mama always said there's an awful lot you can tell about a person by their shoes. Where they're going,where they've been. I've worn lots of shoes. I bet if I think about it real hard I could remember my first pair of shoes.Mama said they'd take me anywhere . Gum She said they was my magic shoes. All right, Forrest, Open your eyes now Let's take a little walk around.How do those feel? His legs are strong, Mrs. Gum,as strong as I've ever seen.But his back's as crooked as a politician.But we're going to straighten him right up, aren't we, Forrest? Forrest! Now, when I was a baby,Mama named me after the great Civil War hero.General Nathan Bed ford Forrest. General Nathan Bed ford Forrest. She said we was related to him in some way.What he did was,he tarted up this club called the Clue Clue Klan.They'd all dress up in their robes and their bed sheets and act like a bunch of ghosts or spooks or something.They'd even put bed sheets on their horses and ride around.And, anyway, that'show I got my name-- Forrest Gum.Mama said the Forrest part was to remind me that sometimes we all do things that, well,that just don't make no sense.This way. Hold on. Ugh! All right.What are y'all staring at? Haven't you ever seen a little boy with braces on his legs before ? Don't ever let anybody tell you they're better than you, Forrest.If God intended everybody to be the same, he'd have given us all braces on our legs.Mama always had a way of explaining things so I could understand them. We lived about a quarter mile off Route 17,about a half mile from the town of Green bow, Alabama.That's in the county of Green bow. Our house had been in Mama's family since her grandpa's grandpa's grandpa had come across the ocean about a thousand years ago.Since it was just me and Mama and we had all these empty rooms,Mama decided to let those rooms out, mostly to people passing through, Like from, oh, Mobile, Montgomery, places like that.That'show me and Mama got money.Mama was a real smart lady. Remember what I told you, Forrest.You're no different than anybody else is. Did you hear what I said, Forrest? You're the same as everybody else. You are no different. Your boy's...different, Mrs. Gum.His I.Q is 75. Well, we're all different.


                
When I first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now. I think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it. Just recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest seeing it or seeing it again. It truly is amazing.


                
I have watched this movie in Spanish class when I was in high school. At first I didn't like it , but towards the end I did. The way he portrayed his character was really good. I didn't expect for him to do that. I love how he got his accent down. It was really a nice movie to watch. It was entertaining but then again boring for me to watch because I didn't really understand it. I would recommend it to anyone else though if they like movies like that. Even if they just want to see him play someone else for a change. Tom Hanks is one of my favorite actors. This is one of his best films, the one I like best I think is the one where he was on the beach. Cast away


                
the first time I ever watched this film was when I was in year 7 history class, and I've being watching it ever since, I think its a great film that shows how anything is possible and also how people can judge others really quickly. but also I think that the film is a really good film to watch and I would recommend this film to others, as its one of my all time favourite and that if you haven't watched it sit yourself down and watch it, because you are missing out on a great film So do watch this film because it also learns you about allot of cultural history in America and its just a great film to watch if your on your own or even with the family.


                
ho did he ever manage to enlist in the Army? okay, okay...we have some of the best movie making ever, in the first hour or so...then we veer off into 7 other movies.the character has an IQ of 75 but his intellect does not account for his, shall we say, humanitarian IQ. are we supposed to wonder...is he such a moral, courageous man because he does not deal at all in adult social complexities and just reacts? is he a "savant", in that as "dumb" as he is, intellectually, he can accomplish things that "average" people cannot, simply because they *think* too much? I wondered if his running ability is half "transferred" skill (what he lacks in real brainpower he gains in braunpower?).we are given not one porterhouse steak here but two...meaning, too much is too much. Like Fred Blassie once said, you see women wrestling two nites in a row, by the third?.....nah. should the Director/Writer simply presented the greatest human running machine in history > cannot possibly break a sweat, stopping his run only for food and nature calls? well, he is the world's greatest runner, a War Hero, a multi-million dollar entrepreneur...and he's got a hot hippie chick n the back burner, too! I think the creators referenced MARATHON MAN, BEING THERE, that DUSTIN Hoffman movie where he plays the "counting" marvel.the two disc set does not include the deleted footage where Gump meets Jesus. :)


                
This movie will please nearly any crowd. This is the one movie that I believe really has it all. Some films and series try to follow suit, but the one that does it best apart from Gump is the Pirates of the Caribbean series, which is primarily an action series anyways. The different events of the back half of the 20th century hit many different areas of life and many different genres of film. There is plenty of humor, bits of excitement, romance placed throughout, moments of sadness and inspiration, and a pretty good amount of history. The fact that it is told out of the intellectually challenged Forrest Gump is nice. The audience still see the events from its own individual eyes, and some of those watching may have their own memories of the given points in history, but we also see the events in Forrest's simplified version. He's a great character because, while not very smart, he is an incredibly nice person that sees no reason to show malice towards anyone. So even with his impairment, he is really one step ahead of the world all of the time. Another great quality that he has is his influence. People now use his name to identify someone who has lots of important events happen around him, which is understandable. But he also happens to the events around him, if that makes sense. No historical event prompted him to do his three year run, develop his mad ping-pong skills, or be a great football player.The history involves more than just events, for we see the progression of culture and everyday life in the scattered glimpses we get of Jenny's life. She pretty much is a prime example of what not to do in the seventies, or really any stage of life. Her character is shown as free spirited, impulsive, whimsical, restless, and even stupid sometimes, but at the same time good-hearted deeper down. The other main characters are Mrs. Gump, Bubba, and Lieutenant Dan. Mrs. Gump is obviously the reason that Forrest is such a positively influential person. Bubba is very simpleminded life Forrest, but is a very good friend, as Forrest points out very blatantly. Lieutenant Dan is an exceedingly grumpy and pessimistic guy who lives off of his sorrows. In some ways, he's kind of what a mean Forrest would look like since they've both lost people and have some kind of impairment. What sets them apart is that they deal with their problems differently.It's clear that Forrest impacts all of the people listed above, but also the people he talks to at the bus stop and the other small people he meets along the way. Examples could include the bumper sticker and tee-shirt salesmen he meets on his run, the anti-war group, and his Alabama teammates.The technical execution is nothing special, but doesn't need to be either. If the whole movie took place in Vietnam, I would say that the war themed special effects should have been improved from their current state, but since there was only about five minutes of battle, the low-quality explosions were acceptable. The acting was spectacular from every character, big and small. This fact is perhaps what makes the movie as great as it is, because the characters are already well written so to pair it with great acting is like cinematic explosion.I would recommend this to just about anyone, but it's best to go into the movie with a pretty good knowledge of history from 1950 to 1980. It's a good go-to movie when a large group is deciding on a movie to watch together. So if you haven't seen it, strongly consider adding it to your shelf or online movie library. Overall Rating: 8.4/10.
Forrest Gump is the best movie ever made. When I first saw it I only sat through the first minute of it and turned it off. After growing with my age and watching a lot of other movies, Forrest Gump was the one that I couldn't take my eyes off of. Forrest Gump is the first movie since Titanic that has made me cry because of Tom Hanks and Gary Sinises outstanding performances. Almost never in my life have I been captivated by a movie and how it played out. Forrest Gump is neither too long or too short, for me it never dragged along and made me bored. Out of the six Oscars that Forrest Gump won, this movie rightfully deserved all of it. Pretty much everything made sense to me which made this movie really great for me. All in all I give Forrest Gump a 10 and think that this is a movie that should be watched for the rest of time.


                
I LOVED this movie. It was so cutely written. The fortune's of a man who decided to take all the steps he needed to not only run, but to run for the one he loves. Forest Gump isn't just a POV of the 'simple minded' on heir views of love, but it's also the triumph you feel for him. Despite everything, home really was were the heart is. This movie will cause you to open your heart and your mind, following Gump on his journey of determination to prove he could be a real man for Jenny. He didn't stay down when he was bullied and he didn't, as most humans selfishly do, think of only himself. I would definitely recommend this movie for families to watch, it will always be a family classic.


                
Forrest Gump is a classic movie about a not so bright man who was in a lot of historical moments but because of his brains he does not realize the effect of his life so he does such things as teach the to be Elvis his(Elvises) famous walk,tell JFK that he had to pee and became a famous Squid salesman. Whats really good about Forrest Gump is that it shows that while he had an adventurous life he did not have and overly great happy fun life and the movie shows a lot of Forrest Gumps life and does not leave anything out which makes it one of the most famous movies ever. Tom Hanks performance in this movie ranks 2nd on my favourite performances ever(first being Leonardio Dicaprios performance in "Whats Eating Gilbert Grape". Overall I rate this movie 91% for being an enjoyable movie and putting in more information then most other movies definitely a must see for everyone.
I remember the hype over this movie and the build up to the Oscars. I too, got caught up in the "isn't this marvelous" stage, until I saw it the third time -- well after the Oscars and Tom Hanks' win # 2. DO I think he deserved it -- yes, but the movie itself doesn't stand up. The movie itself is sweet but the historical edits -- and pure impossiblity of the story doesn't help. The tone of the film isn't fantastical enough to carry such a story -- it's too far in the realm of the real to carry something as impossible, and this effect is far better achieved in the book and in examples of films like "Big Fish." Overall, the players are what make this film good. Never mind Hanks but Robin Wright is perfectly understated as Jenny and Gary Sinise was my personal favorite as Lt. Dan, but the story, direction tone and absolutely horrific historical editing, prevent this movie from being brilliant. In fact, should anyone ever consider this the best movie of it's year? One might, until they see "The Shawshank Redemption."


                
I found this to be an entertaining film, certainly. However, I just don't see it as one of the top 250 films of all time. Tom Hanks does a great job playing Forrest Gump throughout the film. Sally Field as his mother is also quite good, so the problem isn't with the acting. The story is a shade weak, I think. It skips around a good bit and ends up slightly disjointed. Overall, the story is OK, but not 6 Academy Awards worth. It's trying to preach a sermon about ordinary (or less) people being able to make it, yet the message gets lost in the rambling story. I just don't think it was quite in the league that it currently finds itself in. All in all, a very good film, but not a great one. Looks like I'm in the minority, though!


                
Hollywood produces this kind of feel-good movie all the time: They're corny and over-sentimental, they promote traditional family values and are an example of how the little guy can live the American dream, y'all. And Forrest Gump is guilty of all of this, but somehow it all fits together and is an entertaining and genuinely moving film.Tom Hanks excels as lovable half-wit Forrest (kind of a cross between Homer Simpson and Superman) and gets into all sorts of nutty adventures whilst exploring America's recent social history. But essentially this is the story of Forrest's fruitless pursuit of his childhood sweetheart Jenny. Forrest's mental backwardness is never really taken too seriously in the film, but it forms a constant and unspoken division between Forrest and the girl of his dreams, and it is this subtle undercurrent throughout the whole film which makes is so watchable.However, it's cringe-worthy and moving in equal measure - the scenes in which Forrest meets Elvis and John Lennon are incredibly naff. But overall it succeeds. Bizarrely, the film  won the 1994 'best picture' Oscar ahead of Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank Redemption, and whilst it's clearly not in the same class as either of those two, this is the best corny, over-sentimental, feel-good  film I've ever seen! 7/10.


                
