I remember John Byner, the stand-up comic and impressionist of the 1970s talking about guys crying at movies, how it's not an acceptable behavior. He advised the men in his audience to drop their keys, do something that gets them to lean forward, wipe their faces, and get things under control.I dropped my keys watching Forrest Gump. Lieutenant Dan comes over the hill at Forrest and Jenny's wedding, new legs, fiancé at his side, clean-cut and happy.Forrest states the obvious, "Lieutenant Dan, you gawt le-eggs!"And the water-works just started to flow.I sit up straight and clear my throat. Got 'em (the keys, that is). My wife leans over and gives me a kiss. She says, "That's why I love you."Other than a few historical fussinesses and plot slickeries, none of which are worth mentioning, this is as close to a perfect, emotionally-satisfying entertainment as I have ever seen. I love this movie. I never tire of the simple story of the guy with the lowest IQ in the room being the smartest guy in the room. It's filled with a patriotic decency you can only find in The Wizard of Oz and To Kill a Mockingbird.When Dorothy is aching for home and the Wizard can't deliver, I drop my keys. When Scout points to the man behind Jem's bedroom door and says, "Hey, Boo," the fob goes flying.The next time I get out my copy to show to my 11th Grade US History kids, I'll start fingering my key chain. I can't help it.


                
"Mama always said that dyin' was a part of life. I sure wish it wasn't."No matter what Tom Hanks does for the rest of his career, to me, he'll always be Forrest Gump. I mean that as a compliment. His role here was one of the best and most memorable that I've ever seen in a movie. I can't imagine another actor who could have played this character, and played him so well.Forrest's story will take you all across America, and beyond. You get to see a large part of recent American history through his eyes. It's extremely clever the way that Forrest's presence is weaved throughout so many iconic events and places. The man meets Presidents, inspires kings (of music), and lives the kind of life that most people would never even dream of. And he takes everyone watching along with him. Forrest Gump is so beloved, because it's so charming and heartbreaking and genuine. Even when it's at its most sentimental or sugary sweet, it's grounded in the kind of genuine human emotion that makes great movie experiences. You'll laugh and fight back tears, but you'll also think. This is one of the few movies that everyone should see, and that almost everyone will like. It's a classic in every sense of the word.


                
Forrest Gump (1994) is an awesome and breathtaking film directed by Robert Zemeckis. This is an exceptionally touching film with a great cast, excellent choice of music and a thoroughly pleasing narrative. Some of the dialogue in this film is now commonly quoted in everyday life which is a great achievement. It was a teeny bit long though, otherwise this film would have probably got a perfect scored.Despite Forest Gump's low IQ, Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a ringside seat for numerous of the most notable events in the late 20th century. without trying hard just other might do, Forrest teaches Elvis Presley how to dance, becomes a football star, meets John F. Kennedy, serves with honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks at an anti-war rally at the Washington Monument, hangs out with the Yippies, defeats the Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard Nixon, discovers the break-in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping business, becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides to run back and forth across the country for several years.Meanwhile, as the remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets Jenny (Robin Wright Penn), the girl he loved as a boy, who makes her own journey through the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more troubled than the path Forrest happens upon. Featured alongside Tom Hanks are Sally Field as Forrest's mother; Gary Sinise as his commanding officer in Vietnam; Mykelti Williamson as his ill-fated Army buddy who is familiar with every recipe that involves shrimp; and the special effects artists whose digital magic place Forrest during a remarkable array of historical events and people.In fact, nothing is quite pursued to its logical conclusion, which makes the film more a triumph of style than content. Nevertheless this is certainly what it is. Gump is not so much a measure of its times, as a benign reflection upon them, nearly but not quite through the eyes of its lovable protagonist. The film goes through all the emotions but does not appeal on any of them long enough to trouble anyone.


                
"You have to do the best with what God gave you," says Mrs. Gump. Never realizing just how far her son, Forrest would go. With only an IQ of 75, Forrest goes to prove to his Momma and all of America that disabilities don't have to hold one down. In this modern day version of a fairytale, Tom Hanks accurately mimics a mentally challenged person (Forrest Gump). He convinces audiences that he has a disability through his line delivery, speaking in a slow choppy southern drawl, a sound rather uncomfortable to the ear. Unfortunately we hear this speech quite often as Forrest (Hanks) voices over the entire film, telling his inspirational, somewhat unrealistic life story. In the 1950's Forrest Gump's story begins. He's a child growing up in Southern Georgia, set apart from other children because of his need to wear leg braces. His mother pushes him, never allowing him to believe he is different from anyone else. Although it occurs naturally throughout the film, Forrest's ability to influence history while remarkable, is quite obviously an overextension of reality. From teaching Elvis his first dance moves as a child to winning a football scholarship at the University of Alabama. Gump continues to marvel as he pushes across barriers that people don't believe possible for someone "like him". While some may criticize the exaggeration it was intentional by the director, transforming the screenplay into a modern day fairytale. Allowing Forrest to go above and beyond what is capable in real life to plant hope and inspiration to the audience.Another achievement Forrest adds to his list is a war hero in Vietnam. Despite the films main goal being the message not visuals director Robert Zemeckis, a special effects whiz took advantage of the scenes in Vietnam. Down pouring rain, hot wet rain forests, and huge explosions that lite up the screen. Thus turning this family movie into pure action and creating a life like war zone. Later on he demonstrates his vision and the special effects teams' skill by displaying an injury that takes place in the previous war scene. Lieutenant Dan Taylor (played by Gary Sims) suffers a realistic double leg amputee. Forrest doesn't stop at war hero though, he continues to amaze. He runs literally across the entire country for therapeutic relief and opens a successful business which turns Forrest into a millionaire. Here the screenplay continues to emphasize how important morals are through Forrest, that despite his good fortune he continues to portray the definition of a good friend and human being. As the film develops so do Forrest's feelings for Jenny his childhood friend. Here Hanks continues to impress by his complex emotional appeal. Forrest is slow but not unemotional, therefore when Hank expresses his love for Jenny his feelings are somewhat naive and abrupt. Hanks makes the audience believe that Forrest simply feels love, and does not understand the multitude of reasons behind why he and Jenny will never work out. The tale of Forrest Gump may be far-fetched, but in 2 hours and 22 minutes Hanks and Zemeckis do an excellent job of pulling audiences heart strings, reiterating important values that seem too often forgotten.
From Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated director Robert Zemeckis (The Back to the Future Trilogy), this is a remarkable comedy drama based on the novel by Winston Groom. Basically, Forrest Gump (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Tom Hanks) is the low-intelligence but friendly man on a bus stop bench, and telling his life story to all strangers who sit down. The film is basically chronicles of his life accidentally ending up in big events of America between the 1950's and the 1970's, and finding fame and fortune without wanting or asking for it. These include meeting Elvis Presley, being put on an American football team for his running speed, meeting President John F. Kennedy, joining the army for the Vietnam war, becoming a Ping Pong champion, receiving the congressional medal of honour from President Richard Nixon, becoming a shrimp boat captain with his own company and running across America for two years. Within these adventures in his life, he always thinks of those close to him, the love of his life Jenny Curran (Golden Globe nominated Robin Wright Penn), friend Lt. Dan Taylor (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Gary Sinise), friend Pvt. Benjamin Buford 'Bubba' Blue (Mykelti Williamson) and his mother Mrs. Gump (BAFTA nominated Sally Field), and with his low-intelligence he does not realise the significance of his actions. Also starring Siobhan Fallon as Dorothy Harris, School Bus Driver, Alexander Zemeckis (Robert's son) as School Bus Boy, Elizabeth Hanks (Tom's daughter) as School Bus Girl and The Sixth Sense's Haley Joel Osment as Forrest Gump Jr. This is one of those films you cannot ignore, even if some people think not to watch it, but like Forrest says "I don't know if we each have a destiny, or if we're all just floating around accidental-like on a breeze, but I, I think maybe it's both" (this explains the use of the feather at the beginning and end). Personally, this is a film I would definitely recommend to see, and not just because of Hanks in what has to be one of his best roles. It won the Oscars for Best Visual Effects, Best Film Editing, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Makeup, Best Music for Alan Silvestri (he should have) and Best Sound, it won the BAFTA for Best Special Effects, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay, the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, and it was nominated for Best Original Score and Best Screenplay. Tom Hanks was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 40 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes ("Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."), it was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Forrest at Jenny's grave, it was number 37 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 71 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very, very good!
Movie Critic Title: "Forrest Gump"By: Julian Castro"Forrest Gump" is a great movie that almost everybody that likes to watch movies, has some day seen this film, and have thought it is a great movie. I have seen recently this movie two times and in my entire life I have seen it 5 or 6 times and every single time I see it, I become more satisfied and proud that still good movies can be created. This movie was directed by Robert Zemeckis, and its main actors are Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump and Robin Wright as Jenny Curran, Forrest's love throughout the entire movie. This film is a dramatic comedy because you feel as if you were the character, so you acquaint with the protagonist and you fell what he feels during the film. But also this movie has very funny scenes that make you laugh and enjoy the movie much more. This movies takes places in various settings were Forrest Gump goes throughout the film. The most important places are Greenbow, Alabama which was his hometown, also Savannah, Georgia, Vietnam, New York City and Washington D.C. These settings are great places to develop the plot in the film. Forrest Gump is a person that has mental trouble; he has a type of mental retardation. This disability doesn't stop him of doing all of the accomplishments that he achieves throughout the story. What Forrest does is that he follows what his heart wants so he does anything humanly possible to achieve his goals. But Gump's most important goal is to achieve the love of his life, Jenny. Forrest met her since their childhood and since then Gump felt in love with her. So throughout the whole story he tries to achieve his aim with her.In this, very well directed film; the actors did a great job making their specific roles. For example the protagonist of the story Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) was a great actor in this film, because he never overacted in any scene of the movie. Hanks is the perfect actor to do the role of the main character because has a lot of experience in doing a lot of films and most of them are loved by the public. So my personal thought is that Tom Hanks was chosen to be the protagonist actor because of his great quality in the art of acting. Also a great actress was Robin Wright and she did the role of Jenny Curran. She did a great job in her part and she also has the natural ability of being another great main actress and does it flawlessly without overacting. Robert Zemeckis (director) did a great decision by choosing those actors and because of his awesome decision this movie turn out being a great movie. "Forrest Gump", in general, it has very unique scenes. Personally, I liked the beginning of the film because I thought it was a very unique part, which Forrest starts telling some of his life experiences and things that happened to him that had a big impact on him, to a woman that was seated next to him in a bus. This is the only movie that I've seen that it starts like this one. Also a very nice part in the film is when Forrest was talking with Jenny about his experience in Vietnam, and Jenny was paying close attention to what was Forrest saying to her. This was an amazing part because Jenny told Forrest, after his experiences, that she loved him. This was a very powerful part because we see that Forrest felt great after those words.This movie is known for having many different moral and life lessons. This movie tells us that people that have mental problems such as Forrest Gump can succeed. The only limitation for you is you, this means that I you want to achieve something no matter what, if you have dedication and effort to achieve that something, you will reach that goal. Also another moral lesson that this movie shows us is that war is not needed to have an agreement. This movie tells us that war is bad and it can affect many people's lives and families. Also the last lesson that "Forrest Gump" taught us was that don't give up, what we need to do is to try as hard as we can to pass through the obstacles that life puts us in front. A clear example of this lesson is Forrest, life was hard to him because he was handicapped but with some effort and hard work he succeeded in everything he did. I think people that watch this movie will see similar moral lesson, because the movie is trying to teach us the lessons that I mentioned in the paragraph.This PG-13 film is a great movie that anybody that is above 13 years old can watch. But I specially recommended it to people that failed in life, so that this movies teaches them that they still have an opportunity to stand up from that failure and learn from it. I would not recommend this movie to people that don't have a open mind, because they wont learn from their errors or from their mistakes, but generally I recommended to almost everybody. Finally, this movie is a marvelous piece of art, because it is wonderful movie to watch and every time you see it you learn something new that will help throughout life or in future real life situations.Scale of 1-10:<U+0095> 9.5Julian Castro is a 10th grader critic from Lincoln School. He is from San Jose, Costa Rica and is 16 years old. This critic is made for a film app elective class. By practicing and doing more critics he will become a master in the critic area, that's why this exercise was ordered by the professor to do.
*****WARNING: THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS**** Adapted from the novel of the same name by Winston Groom, "Forrest Gump" is unlike any movie I've ever seen. For the duration of its two-hour run, it enchants and moves, amazes and inspires, seamlessly blending comedy and drama, history and fantasy, threading its spellbinding yarn against the backdrop of some of the defining events in modern American history."Forrest Gump" is about Forrest Gump, an everyman from Alabama. While Forrest is none too bright, he can run like the wind, which secures him a scholarship to the University of Alabama. As the film continues, he becomes a footballer, a soldier, a ping-pong champion, a folk hero and a multi-millionaire. He meets Elvis Presley and JFK; exposes the Watergate Scandal; saves lives in the Vietnam War; runs across the United States; becomes a household name as a highly successful shrimping boat captain; makes the cover of Forbes magazine; and inspires John Lennon's iconic record "Imagine." And yet, in spite of all these events, the defining moments in Forrest's life are those he shares with Jenny, his childhood sweetheart, who flits in and out of his life as she goes on a downward spiral trying to come to terms with being a survival of physical and sexual abuse by her father when she was a child.It is from these tender and real moments between Forrest and Jenny that the film finds it emotional core. Their relationship develops over the years and ultimately leads to them marrying and having a son together. But even then, Jenny's traumatic past comes back to haunt her, as the years of self-destructive behaviour that it triggered led to her becoming ill with an unknown virus (possibly HIV/AIDS) that tragically claims her life towards the end of the movie. "Forrest Gump" is very much a take it or leave it film. It could be viewed as one-dimensional, optimist bilge, about an idiot meandering aimlessly through life, merely getting lucky. Reading between the lines, though, you find a masterpiece, careening between sadness and joy, pain and triumph. Robert Zemeckis' direction is almost flawless; he renders "Forrest Gump" with aesthetic quality and flair. It includes soundtrack with contributions from various American artists and, of course, Alan Silvestri, who composes a beautiful piano suite that is magical in itself.Recognising technical and writing merit, the standard of acting in "Forrest Gump" is high as to be almost off the scale. Tom Hanks's performance as Forrest Gump accrued Oscar, Golden Globe and SAG awards that he wholly deserved; he plays Forrest's naivety and vulnerability well and his monologue at Jenny's grave was a tearjerker. Robin Wright's portrayal of Jenny - a woman crying out for help - was tender and real and Gary Sinise, playing Forrest's commanding officer in the Army, Lt. Dan Taylor, who loses his legs after being wounded in combat, is superb, flawlessly capturing Lt. Dan's wrath, melancholy and despair and later his redemption and joy. There is no way to define "Forrest Gump" as a movie. It can only be defined as art.
I'd say this is a 94/100 type movie, it sticks in my mind as something that don't forget easily.Tom Hanks is brilliant in this film, as his portrayal of somebody who just isn't too bright is spot on. There are also several lines in this movie that are classics- in particular the "Life is like a box of chocolates" line.I don't think it's a particularly deep film for the most part at first, because the story is quite simple. But simple stories can and are often times quite deep- take Aesop's fables for example.It's a shame that in the back of my mind that I have to compare this to Shawshank, because that's my favorite movie and they both came out the same year.


                
This film was an instant classic for me. They don't write scripts of this calibre any more, which is a shame.Tom Hanks is brilliant as the mildly retarded Forest Gump. The film takes you by the hand, and shows Gumps life and experiences, both good and bad, in his own words from childhood to adulthood.At the same time you get a basic look at modern U.S. history. It is heartwarming and sad, funny and satirical. Cleverly weaves in so many sub plots and ideas. Yet doesn't use excessive violence or bad language to relate powerful messages in a heartwarming story. A story all the family can watch. A cracking film you can enjoy over and over again.


                
A classic Robert Zemeckis film. The movie captures the life of Forrest perfectly. Its sweet and charming, it contains true depth and grace to its characters and story. Its an accomplished feat of cyber-cinema that it tricks, not to mention subtler ones, look amazingly seamless. As he did in "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" and the "Back to the Future" films, Robert Zemeckis is bound to leave viewers marveling at the sheer wizardry behind such effects. Even the opening credit sequence, featuring a feather that drifts along a perfectly choreographed trajectory until it reaches its precise destination. The movie grabs the attention of most people. SEE IT


                
Spoiler Warning!!!! Forrest Gump is in reality a movie that covers a plethora of issues for example racial issues with the KKK and Black Panthers, drugs, peace, war, and finally disability. For this review I would like to touch on the disability portion. I must first say that even though this movie is mostly comedic it can still be said that it is partially accurate. In the beginning Forrest breaks off his braces to help with his scoliosis but broke them off to run away from bullies. Yet even though he had this disability against him he still had the ability to do it. So in reality this movie begins by saying that it's more about ability. I can prove this point further by saying that he became a war veteran with a medal of honour and also managed to become a millionaire and then evidently a successful father, even though Forrest was put in the situation that was impossible, and even if it was for comedic purposes it is much deeper, yet he still managed to come out ahead. Mostly a duration of the movie it is asked if Forrest is stupid, now Forrest doesn't like it and even though he may have a low IQ he still manages to pull through in the long run. This is also the case for Lt. Dan, he is in Vietnam harmed in battle and winds up with his legs amputated, later in the movie he gets prothstetics and is able to walk again, he also ends up being a millionaire because of his success in the shrimp industry. It's not that he is in need because he is disabled but is able to help because he is able. So in reality Forrest Gump isn't necessarily a film about specifically disability or otherwise it is something that shows how much of an ability you have whether or not you have a disability from birth or war or some other thing. It takes a will to do something and this is why I would give this movie a 9/10 because of its uplifting story and some form of motivation to do something with your life.


                
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) is sat on a bench waiting for a bus. He's hardly the most intelligent person in the world, but he's definitely the most caring, heart-warming and relatable character to ever appear in film. Gump tells his story to other bus-waiters who come and go and only hear snippets of the whole tale. The path towards present day is packed full of events and achievements, some of which include the Vietnam war, meeting the President (twice), unveiling the Watergate Scandal and running non- stop for over four years. Sounds ludicrous. Above all else Gump has accomplished feats that would occur over many lifetimes. Tom Hanks though, fills Gump's story with tenacity. He has an eventful life, one full of ups and downs. Very sad, but very humorous. A great film controlled by its lead man.


                
There are movies that you can stand up while watching, go to the toilet or get another bowl of popcorn, and than there are movies, that keep you bound to your chair till the end because it's heartfelt and spectacular plot is just too good.The latter is what this movie is. There is no way, anybody would be able to take their eyes off of this masterpiece directed by Robert Zemeckis. It combines one of the most beautiful screenplays in the 20th century and a score that keeps playing in your head until you peacefully fall asleep or just die and go straight to heaven.The leading role of Forest Gump is being played by an astonishingly good Tom Hanks - such a great performance! As well portrayed is the smaller role of the mother, played by Sally Fields and Gumps big love-interest Jenny, portrayed by Robin Wright.Boots the house down, this is a must-see movie for every generation.


                
but very smart! I think this made Tom Hanks one of the most popular actors of our times! Script is very interesting and his acting is, I do not know how to describe it, beyond fabulous! It is one of those films which stick with you from the first moment that you see it. After I watched it I went: It is the stupid that is so popular today in the movie theaters? But I did not take it too seriously.I glorify its fantastic acting, camera and sets this film was filmed in. Of course, I assume that 99 per cent of the population saw this film. If you are within those 1 per cent, you either do not like stupid people or you are stupid yourself ;) Just watch it!


                
There aren't many movies that have penetrated the subconscious of the American zeitgeist as intensely as Gump, and it's not hard to see why. It's a film that deftly mixes nearly every genre into one epic tale, yet never shies away from the importance of small moments. But with this much love, cynicism and (some deserved) scorn aren't far behind: terms like "on-the nose" and "syrupy sweet" come to mind. But what's the advantage of this cynicism when it's so rewarding to just sit back and enjoy? At its core, Gump is pure Hollywood magic that deserves to be treasured. Essentially a biopic of a fictional character, Gump is first-person-perspective storytelling with a protagonist who sees much but perceives little<U+0085>at least not in the same way we do. Swimming in historical fiction and even magical realism, he impacts American history: presidents are met, classic songs are heard, Vietnam wars are fought<U+0085>yet Forrest's gaze is set on one thing: love. It's silly and whimsical, yet consistently surprising to see Forrest navigate through life with such sincerity and tenacity. Lest we neglect how technically impeccable the film is. The aesthetic is simplistic and gorgeous, and the effects (missing limbs, altered historical footage) are light years ahead of what they should be. But these things are rarely mentioned because they aren't the point. Zemeckis wants the movie to be the same as its hero: simple, random, sincere. Gump's unconditional love, overwhelming kindness, and naïve determination got him wherever he needed to be, and that journey leaves him and us in stitches, while never abandoning hope. Manipulative? Maybe<U+0085>or maybe it's just great filmmaking.


                
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a dream.The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages between the 1950s and the 1980s to become involved in every major event in American history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his shields.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man. That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are. Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role.I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him into a person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field) who tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but who never criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid," his mother tells him, "Stupid is as stupid does," and Forrest turns out to be incapable of doing anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally fall from his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind.That's how he gets a college football scholarship, in a life story that eventually becomes a running gag about his good luck. Gump the football hero becomes Gump the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump the Ping-Pong champion, Gump the shrimp boat captain, Gump the millionaire stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named Apple Computer), and Gump the man who runs across America and then retraces his steps.It could be argued that with his IQ of 75 Forrest does not quite understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love, although Jenny, the girl he falls in love with in grade school and never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't know what love is." She is a stripper by that time.The movie is ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American history. The director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic that special effects can do (his credits include the "Back To The Future" movies and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"), and here he uses computerized visual legerdemain to place Gump in historic situations with actual people.Forrest stands next to the schoolhouse door with George Wallace, he teaches Elvis how to swivel his hips, he visits the White House three times, he's on the Dick Cavett show with John Lennon, and in a sequence that will have you rubbing your eyes with its realism, he addresses a Vietnam-era peace rally on the Mall in Washington. Special effects are also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who quite convincingly loses his legs.Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is able to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound in what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox." And the biggest laugh in the movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. (That's not the laugh, just the setup.) As Forrest's life becomes a guided tour of straight-arrow America, Jenny (played by Robin Wright) goes on a parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course, and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. She's into psychedelics and flower power, antiwar rallies and love- ins, drugs and needles. Eventually it becomes clear that between them Forrest and Jenny have covered all of the landmarks of our recent cultural history, and the accommodation they arrive at in the end is like a dream of reconciliation for our society. What a magical movie.


                
I am not a big fan of the romance genre generally speaking because I get my romance in side-stories in other film types like sci-fi, action, adventure, fantasy etc. But when the movie is labeled "romance" as a main theme then I usually will not like it... most of the "romance" films are icky chick-flicks *ewe*! I usually need more to make the movie interesting. Forrest Gump is one of those rare romance films that I thoroughly enjoyed! All I can say is "Jenny, you fool! The right man for you has been there the whole time for you and you simply do not want to admit it! Sure, He isn't that smart yet he's smarter than all the men you have dated combined! Go back to Forrest!" And that's all I've got to say about that! 9.5/10


                
I am a big fan of Tom Hanks and I have enjoyed pretty much all of his movies over the years but it was a close call between this and the green mile but I think forest gump is my favorite Hanks film of all time.It's such a nice story that is told in a clever way making you feel like a child once again, the main character played by Hanks is lovable, you can't help but hope for the best for him and simply just want to reach out and tell him everything will be OK. The movie has a realistic feel even thought it's fictional but this is because of how it goes though real time events, the main reasons why I love this movie so much is because it's like reading a book the story line takes you to another time and other place and the only bad thing is when it ends and you bounce back to reality.


                
Tho Forrest Gump is a great movie i would have done some things different, like i would of had a back story more on his father was kinda left out. Also we never figured out what happened to jenny's father kinda just briefly got taken out of the picture. where did he go what happened? It seems whoever wrote this was against fatherly figures, lutenist Dan was one of the only fatherly figures in the movie.but other than that this movie a great movie and i love it. Forrest gump should have won more than one Oscar and should be in the hall of fame. Forrest will go down in history forever my kids will always watch this movie with the family.


                
This might just be the best movie I have ever seen! It made me all kinds of emotional. There are parts that are so funny you will spit out your drink but other parts make it hard to swallow. Forest Gump is a simple man with a simple heart but he sure knows how to tell a story. This is my favorite movie of all time and I wish I could watch it again for the first time. I find that the worst part of the movie is the ending with Jennie. I think the only thing that disturbs me is that Jennie only comes to Forest when she is sick and no one else will take her and then she left... I felt as if Forest deserved more respect than that. However, the rest of the movie is golden. I 100% recommend it anyone in the world.
I believe the cast; as a whole, were amazing...but this movie is the whole reason I absolutely love Tom Hanks! His performance was outstanding to me! This movie has such a heartfelt message, you can't help but fall in love with it (unless you're a heartless piece of trash that is). Following Forest's life story captivates you from the beginning as you learn all the hardships he had to overcome starting from a very young age and ending with the present in the movie (after he finishes telling his story and you follow him in the present). It's just hands down an amazing movie that made me cry and smile, laugh and yell in anger, and helped me realize judgment is the worst crime anyone can commit!!


                
Forrest Gump Forrest Gump is about overcoming the borders set up by others. While his mother always knew something was different about Forrest, she never criticized him once. When he was called stupid he was told to just say "stupid is as stupid does. These are the things that help this disabled her through life.with all the strugglesSummary The story starts in the picturesque town of green bow Alabama where a boy is getting "magic shoes" put on his legs to get his legs straightened. as it progresses boy meets girl, girl likes him as a friend etc. they teach each other how to hang and swing and play. she always looks out for him to when he is getting chased or bullied, she is always there to yell "RUN FORREST, RUN" later in the film however things change after going off to college he becomes the star running back of Alabama university after 5 years he graduates, and off to war he goes war he meets his best good friend Bubba Blue after a surprise attack Forrest spends time healing with his future first mate Lt. Dan he goes on to master a little sport called table tennis he becomes an Olympic world champion and buys a shrimp boat with the money. after making a fortune off shrimping he goes on a journey across America running all the way. After the run he goes to her in Georgia. Forrest story ends fairly soon after this but I will leave that for you to see.


                
YEAR OF RELEASE: 1994 WRITERS: Winston Groom (novel) and Eric Roth (screenplay) DIRECTOR: Robert Zemeckis RUNTIME: 2 hours 22 minutesI haven't seen this film for about 7 years or so. Seeing it again I was reminded why this is one of my all-time favorite pictures.THE PLOT: Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump, a mildly retarded Alabaman who brushes shoulders with the key figures and events of the 50s through the early 80s. Due to hard work, focus and uncommon wisdom he is hugely successful at whatever he does (running, war hero, ping pong, shrimp fishing). Meanwhile, the one woman he loves in all the world, Jenny (Robin Wright Penn), flounders through life hopelessly trying to find fulfillment in the drug culture with all the wrong people."Forrest Gump" is hugely entertaining on every level. It's a drama that skillfully includes both lighter, comedic moments and serious, tragic elements. If you've never seen it, don't think for a second that this is some average romantic comedy or goofball comedy. Far from it. I don't watch the Acadamy Awards or give any credence to their judgment ("American Beauty," best picture? Please) but "Forrest Gump" is one instance where they were absolutely right in regard to the Best Picture award.Some have criticized the film as an imbecilic fantasy, arguing that a simpleton like Gump would never become successful. It's true that the picture exaggerates Forrest's successes and experiences, and in that sense it's not realistic, but the film plainly reveals WHY he experienced continued success throughout his life. We can all learn from these little gems of wisdom:-- Whatever your I.Q., zero in on the areas for which you have a real talent.-- Focus on those gifts and master them. In other words, don't be a jack of all trades. This is in line with the Russian proverb: "If you chase 8 rabbits you'll catch none."-- Mastering your talents will take HARD WORK (which explains why lazy people are never wealthy, unless they inherit it).-- Whatever you do, do it WITH ALL YOUR HEART.-- Love deeply and cultivate deep loyalties (e.g. Jenny, Bubba & Lt. Dan). Loyalty is underrated.-- Be patient and slow to judge (unless someone abuses another person).-- Allow others the freedom to choose and make mistakes, even if it seems like it takes forever for them to learn from them.-- If something or someone STINKS, reject it and stay away from it (remember the prostitute?).-- Keep your word.-- Pray and have FAITH.-- Keep a humble spirit no matter how successful or great you become.We can also learn lessons from Jenny: Trying to attain fulfillment through loose sex and foreign substances is a LOST cause. Recognize and embrace those who have your best interests in mind (i.e. those who truly love you and are loyal to you); stay away from people who use and abuse you.From Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise) we learn a potent lesson about struggling with God to find true peace, success and reconciliation. Dan's all-out fight with God on the shrimp boat in the storm is potent and REAL. The great men and women of the bible experienced intense struggles with God: Most of the book of Job shows Job arguing with the Almighty and wanting to put Him on trial for crimes against humanity (!!); When God finally answers him Job falls to his face in humility and reverence. Jacob fought with God all night; the next day the Lord changed his name to Israel, which means "struggles with God" (Genesis 32:22-30). Also, remember Jesus' struggle with God and His will in the Garden of Gethsemane?Another thing we can learn from Lt. Dan is that he was able to recognize a "golden connection" in Forrest. No one makes it alone, no one. They had help. Despite Forrest's lack of academic smarts, Dan recognized his wisdom and greatness; it attracted him and he respected it. Because of his link to Gump he became hugely successful. Remember: "One day of favor is worth a lifetime of labor."Late in the film you'll see Lt. Dan and his Asian fiancé at Gump's wedding. Note how Dan LOOKS at Forrest when they greet each other. Dan shows the utmost love and respect for Gump and is in utter awe of his simple-minded greatness. (This is great acting on Sinise's part)."Forrest Gump" is a film gem to be RELISHED on many levels. Not only will you be incredibly entertained, you may learn a thing or two.


                
I was long ago planing to watch this movie and when my lecturer from university told us in a lecture about him I finally decided to watch it. It's a great movie. Really touchable and inspiring story.Forrest Gump is nothing special, they don't even believe he is able to graduate school like normal kids, but his mother does. She never gives up on him and support him. She is the exact parent which a child like Forrest needs to grown up right. Without any expectations of big results Forrest gets beyond his possibilities and started running though his life really fast. Even though he is not with a special intellect potential he achieves everything that he wants. He is doing what he wants in the moments, when he is enjoying it and he succeed. Nothing stops him to get what he want, people's opinion is not important for him. This movie is example for that there are no limits or restrictions for what a person can or can't do. When you want to do something you just start doing it, because life is short and we may loose our chance while we are wondering when is the right time to begin. There is no more right time than the exact moment - now.


                
Ever have that one film that you've been getting bothered to watch, and just because you haven't seen it people feel the need to hate you and bash you? Or maybe it's just me. Forrest Gump has been neglected by me for years on end. Sadly, I can not give a reason strong enough for people to understand. It's something only I understand.My reason is that sometimes I get so sick and tired of hearing so much about one film I just blow it off and pick around the edges. It gets annoying to hear the same thing being spoken over and over again, and when I say some of my favorite films are Clerks, Tremors, License to Drive, Joy Ride, and Bio-Dome people, the ones that have heard of the above, say I have a very eclectic taste in film. That I do. But when people started verbally insulting me saying "I'm not a real critic" and "You can't call yourself a critic if you haven't seen the masterpiece that is Forrest Gump, I finally just said "OK! I'll watch it!" The plot I won't waste time repeating. Aside from me till this day EVERYONE knows the plot of Forrest Gump. So why repeat it? A simpleton with an IQ of 75 (Hanks) describes his life in an autobiographical form to strangers while waiting for a bus. Can't get more simplistic than that.Forrest Gump has been called by people "a masterpiece" and "a classic." While I think it's a well made film, I don't think it deserved six Oscars. I also don't think I should be ridiculed and slapped in the face for not seeing this film. It wasn't truly amazing. In fact, no film is really "amazing." Even the favorite film I don't call amazing. When defining "amazing" you'll find it's definition is "surprising greatly." I've seen actors, directors, people, teachers, etc do an "amazing" job teaching. The film I'm waiting to define "amazing" has not been found.The Oscars Gump won were Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Actor, Best Director, Best Effects, and Best Film Editing. It deserved Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Actor, Best Director, and Best Editing. That's about it. Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, Four Weddings and a Funeral, The Shawshank Redemption, Quiz Show were all nominated for Best Picture in the year 1994. I can tell you right now I liked Shawshank better than Gump.As for the rest, Director Robert Zemeckis did a great job adapting the story onto film. Tom Hanks is rightfully the only person who could play Forrest with true affection. I respect that. Hanks is now attached to so many things like Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code I think "Will he ever make a film worth seeing again?" One category Forrest Gump should've won for is "Best Musical Score." The film includes the catchiest, most enjoyable score I can remember in a film. It's definitely on my list of faves (and my iPod for that matter). I found myself jamming out to the tunes in this movie. Especially Lynyrd Skynyrd's iconic "Free Bird" which was used to perfection in this film.Forrest Gump, the character, is very likable because of his mild mannered and innocent ways. I enjoyed the scenes of him in the army, and the scenes of him at the end. He is definitely a very memorable character. Not an amazing character.My final thoughts on "the greatest movie ever" go as followed; it was a damn fine film with very memorable moments, but is NOT the greatest film to ever be filmed, put in theaters, thrown in a case, set on the shelves. I somehow feel if I was not pressured and annoyed to review this film I would've enjoyed it more. Maybe if people didn't annoy me so much to review it I would've enjoyed more of what it had to offer. The damage is done. I bet even after I'm done with this review people will say I didn't do it appropriate justice. I got two words to say for them; s**t happens.Starring: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, and Sally Field. Directed by: Robert Zemeckis.


                
