It is very rare that you have a near perfect episode, especially of a series on commercial television. But FX has done it here with The Americans. It is nearly flawless. Great mind candy for the thinking person, with something to come back to after the first viewing. I credit the success of The Americans to 3 things: Great script, great music, and Matthew Rhys.The script is adult, no-nonsense storytelling built on an original premise, the Cold War. Those of us who are old enough remember this period, a period of the Russians-are-coming hysteria that was second only to the Civil Rights movement the decade before. An era very under- represented in film and ignored on the small screen, comes to life for a new generation.Of course this era would be nothing without the music of this time and again, The Americans is flawless. "Harden my Heart" opens the series, and how appropriate. Disguised, and ready to perform sexual acts for information, we first meet the series heroine, Elizabeth Jennings whose heart is truly hardened. Fast forward to a back alley chase and we are introduced to our hero(?) Phillip to the pulsations of "Tusk" by Fleetwood Mac. "Tusk" is appropriate here too. Just think about it.Must mention these disguises too, which are not your silly, unrealistic mission-impossible disguises. No, the disguises in The Americans are really disguises and surprisingly, with very little disguise. What makes these disguises work for the Jennings is that the Jennings can act. With each disguise is a new personality. Elizabeth does her disguise well but the master of disguise is Phillip.Phillip, played by Matthew Rhys, is special, or should I say, Matthew Rhys is special as Phillip. Rhys takes the art of disguise to the next stage. He is authentic, nerdy and funny in disguise talking to Martha, reminding you of a young John Ritter. And then as the kick-your-ass, baddest-ass-kicking daddy of them all over a barbecue pit, Rhys is wonderfully dangerous, stellar, and I can't get enough of him.This series only has to live up to its pilot a little bit. The series has everything: originality, sex, espionage, suspense...did I say originality? And yes, Matthew Rhys who has the role of his life, I daresay, the role he has been waiting for, is the welcomed surprise here. Hat's off to casting. Can't wait to see what they are going to do with this.


                
I'm not going to spoil any of the episodes so read on. I'm just saying I've been waiting for years for a television series that sets the hook and does not let you go. Very intense, great social issues, Keri Russell is spectacular. I just started "Nashville" the series this year and thought that was the answer, but "The Americans" has bumped Nashville down to number 2. Some of the younger crowd who does not know the 80's, or the cold war between the USSR and the US, might not feel the intensity compared to us who felt the tension of the time - when WWIII felt on the doorstep. The first ten minutes of the series opener was the best ten minutes of any television series opener in history. The pounding music, the action, the mystery, the excitement was unbelievable. I just hope the writers can keep it going for the next ten years.


                
What a great show this is. In stead of going for the 'fighting the bad guys' routine this show follows in the footsteps of great shows like Dexter/Breaking Bad or the Sopranos, where you find yourself supporting the bad guys and even rooting for them to win.Now I have come to terms with my appreciation of that 'what makes a guy bad' is ever so often 'what makes a show interesting'. Us having slightly dull lives with work, kids, pc-games and drinking beer, we all want to be a badass meth-cook, brilliant murder of sicko's or in this case KGB undercover operative. Well at least for 1 hour per week.This show follows in the high standard acting of the other mentioned shows. Is kinda slow, in a good way, not rushing into it. Takes time for character development that makes you want to know more about these spies and what there other motives are (other than fighting the cold war). The strange relationship between the mother-spy and father-spy is also highly entertaining. They really 'work' together, even in their marriage. Can't wait to see how that part of the storyline will turn out. In part 3 Margo Martindale (Maggs from Justified) makes appearance, a great actress that can play a very believable 'woman mob-boss' (or in this case KGB field director). A great choice for the part. Hope to see many more seasons and if they run out of material, we can always hope for a second cold war between the US and good old Mother Russia


                
Watching the last episode was like having to say good-bye to a lover........... or the shock felt by Keri Russell when she see's Paige....... well you'll just have to watch it.
I watched every episode and The Americans was truly a rarity in TV entertainment quality. It never compromised, never jumped the shark, and the last episode was one of the best endings, unlike most series endings who just mail it in with a bunch of feel-good pretentious schlock.


                
The fifth season's first episode featured the "Americans" digging a hole - a BIG hole. The scene goes on a long, long time. This is pretty much how the whole season feels. The show downshifts a gear or two, the payoff is elusive, and you wonder where it's all going; until, that is, the end finally does come, when it's a shocker. It is all done quite intentionally so as to set up the final season.The Sixth Season of "The Americans" continues to fire on all cylinders: character development, acting, suspense, photography, writing and spy craft, all are splendid.The focus is increasingly on Philip and Elizabeth, their relationship and inner development, while the other characters recede somewhat into the background, like subsidiary planets orbiting about a double star. Under extreme pressure to prevent disaster, they commit acts that may cause many viewers actually to come to hate them. in the end, no one gets off unscathed, and everyone is simply striving to stay afloat amidst the wreckage....Which, in a way, is the point:On the surface, "The Americans" is one of those "mismatched buddy" shows: a young couple teamed together purely for reasons of expediency. However, it runs much deeper than that. Beyond maintaining the charade of a false identity and masquerading as someone you are not, lies the complexity of their developing relationship: exploring the nature of love when you live with someone who lies for a living; understanding what drives them, the far reaching consequences of their choices, & the rationalization of their acts of violence.At the heart of "The Americans" is a family infected by the conviction that loyalty to country overshadows family or one's own soul. As viewers, we're asked the tough questions: If the couple wore blue instead of red, would it change anything? Are spies heroes - or pawns? Is patriotism formed by rational choice - or the product of where we're born? At what point is the loss of one's humanity too high a price?


                
This show is very different and engaging! Love the choice of actors - Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys. They are doing an excellent job, great play! If you really are following the show close you'll get addicted!I love Keri Russell as a bad ass Russian spy! And Matthew Rhys is so sexy! They are a great on-screen couple and a team. Lies, spying, sex, intrigues you get the whole package!! The show is solid! You would enjoy the tension, the spy games, the chemistry between Elizabeth and Phillip, KGB spies, who actually start as pretending to be the perfect "american" family and then they actually realize they really love each other and between their spy missions they are trying to build their trust and love.


                
Just want to thank Keri Russell, Matthew Rhys, Noah Emmerich and the entire cast and crew for bringing such powerful, creative and nuanced television to our screens. It seems to me that episode after episode we are drawn in every decreasing circles to the inevitable finale; raw, unsparing and unafraid to explore the result of clinging to idealogy.The very last episode felt so unexpected and actually I don't know why, it was inevitable, but this aching portrayal of worlds (personal and external) dissolving echoed parallels of the time and an eternal human truth, this is what we all struggle with ultimately, letting go of attachment to any idealogy or concept good or bad.


                
Yes better even than Breaking Bad. Well that's not quite fair. They are apples and oranges. Breaking Bad takes a license to deviate from realistic with over the top shock and awe. The Americans is extremely realistic and yet every bit as suspenseful and much more thought provoking. The pilot is brilliant. It grabs your interest at the start and leaves you begging for more at the end. The music played accurately takes us back to the time for those old enough to remember. The details of the sets are impeccably accurate to the eighties. The acting is excellent. Writing is amazing. Characters are rich and well developed. The two main characters, the "illegals", are extremely well developed from their upbringing in the Soviet Union to their different personalities and inner conflicts as well as the evolution of their relationship and their changing attitudes about their work. The tension created by the relationship between the illegals and their FBI agent friend and neighbor is brilliant. The look at the inside of cold war spy craft is fascinating. This series is a total winner in every category.


                
Let me start off by saying a couple of things:
1. I don't leave many reviews, this might be my 2nd overall, this may say something to you if I bother to leave this here.
2. I was born in 1981 in a country behind the Iron Curtain, so until the end of 1989 I got to experience, through the eyes of a child, at least a part of what communism meant for me, my family and my country. 
3. History and the Cold War are some of my passions, there's never enough material to cover about it, ever. A lot to discover, each day. US became a mirage for me, and I grew up trying to learn much more about their culture and history, their way of life.
The Americans has drawn me through its story, and I remained hooked till the end, because what the producers, actors, all involved managed to create is (at least) a credible work of art, a credible testimony of a past world that I can only understand now through adult eyes.
Yes, maybe my opinion should not be on top, as there are surely a lot of you who were a bit older during the 80's, and also lived there then. But I love this show, and I feel like writing this. 
Was everything perfect in the show? No, it wasn't - there were some episodes (especially in season 5) with pretty much no action, season 5 puts more stress on the psychological side, Phillip trying to get away from the nastiest part of the job, while we watch Paige finding out the truth about her parents and slowly getting prepared to be part of the action. Did they always nail the haircuts? Or the type of cars used? No, they didn't - but this also makes the show more interesting. The 80's were set for the action, but any decade would have been good all the same. The idea of the show is what matters most. Moreover, their haircuts and cars are really average - as they didn't try to attract any unwanted attention. All the action comprised in these seasons would not have been achieved by just 2 guys, also in such a short period - most likely, but the show is what it is also because of this action. 
A lot of people are upset now about the show's ending. I can get that.
But I also get the message that the producers wanted to give. The questions remained unanswered about the protagonists' fates equal the ones about their past, before Stan became a neighbor to the Jennings, or after the Jennings reached the States up to the 80's. 
In real life, those illegals, many of them, were caught and arrested, but swapped to Russia for some other prisoners - and the details of their lives as US citizens are even more blurry. Art is about filling in those gaps with fiction and grains of truth. 
The Americans starts in one point in those peoples'lives and ends in another. It's never meant to be a biography, but what it manages to do a damn good job in depicting life, ideas and emotions - as they COULD have been experienced back then. It managed to get me hooked, and the music was so nicely chosen. The ending only proves that people can be only human, in the hardest moments...
Goodbye, dear show - it's been a nice ride!
Totally recommended.
Every topic one can pick, this show nailed it: story, dialogue, acting, atmosphere, and above all, a masterful recreation of de 1980s, both in the US and the USSR. 
How sorry to see it ended, but how beautifully it did.


                
One of the best tv shows ever ! I'm so sad that this shows it comes to an end.....Was great from all points of view : acting, screenplay, director, intrigue.
Been an teenager that period of time I saw this show with different eyes...maybe the youngest people will feel different, but this show deserve an " thank you" !
From me, 10/10 !


                
This series has a great plot, amazing acting and superb soundtrack from the best of the 1980's can offer. I highly recommend everyone for its artistic quality.


                
From pilot to finale this is one of the best written and acted shows in recent history, I would put this in my top five of recent memory. From day one to its exciting conclusion it defied convention and told not only an amazing spy story but a truly human one as well. This is a deeply underrated show that I would highly recommend about spies living in 1980s America. If you haven't watched it as of right now most of the series is on Amazon Prime. I would give it a shot. It is an amazing show worth the watch.


                
This show is smart, original, and consistently excellent: it has out-of-this world performances by the two leads, a first-rate supporting cast, thought-provoking scripts, incredible production values . . . and man, does it get the vibe and look of the real 80s (not the stereotypical TV 80s) exactly right. It digs deep into how important that era was and how the conflicts that we face now (familial, social, cultural, geopolitical) were all coming into focus then. And, it does this all through the story of two Russian spies who live so deep under cover as a "normal" American family that their cover is becoming as real, maybe more real, than their avowed roles as undercover agents for the motherland. I am confounded by the fact that except for the guest actress who plays Claudia (who really is great) this high-quality show never gets noticed by the usual TV awards. The American Film Institute has awarded it TV Program of the Year three years running, but the Golden Globes and the Emmys don't even nominate it. My theory is that this show is just too cerebral for the Globeys and the Emmys, who do not necessarily prefer dumber TV, but do favor more topical TV. This shows is daring, intelligent, and engrossing-- TV at its best!


                
This is the only high-profile T.V Series out there (as far as I've seen) to safely state that in it's own category it's the best one yet.I personally watch a lot of T.V Series each week including Homeland, Dexter and Breaking Bad, duh well they are to be continued after a few months... Other than those three great ones I also watch The Walking Dead, Psych, Game of Thrones and a few more but I found The Americans is the most anticipated one for me as for now.Not discussing further and competing with other series, the maturity and action of this T.V Series is out of the world. It brings realism to the story-line and the utmost willingness to continue watching.The action, thrill, especially the pace of "each episode" of The Americans is the most amazing and addictive experience. It's like in each and every episode there is a scene which was totally unexpected! Which in return brings in even more suspense than it already has. Last time I had this kind of feeling with Prison Break in 2005.The Russian and American spying and all the methods they use to convey their messages, and most importantly the realism of being a spy and an agent with all the skills you need as of an army guy, willing to die! Not having super-powers in any way yet having such training to compete and be successful with what they do while handling any type of unforeseen intrusions and problems they may face up-forth! I believe The Americans is one of the best T.V Series and in future it might even officially become one of the best T.V Series of all times if it continues.I sincerely hope it does not get cancelled or anything (not as if I think it will but just saying that it shouldn't... Don't even think about it!) However considering any possibility as in past many awesome T.V Series have also been cancelled but they had their reasons...Either way, we can only wish for the best and do our part by showing our support and generosity!I hope my review was helpful for the community. :)


                
'When men choose not to believe in God, they do not ... believe in nothing, they then become capable of believing in anything.' --G.K. Chesterton"The Americans" and "Breaking Bad" are both excellent series. Both feature superior writing and story arcs. Both are exciting and unpredictable from beginning to end. And while the characters are believable and fleshed out in both series, the characters in "Breaking Bad" are missing an essential human characteristic that is central in "The Americans." None are searching for truth.Everyone has a god in their lives. If it's not the true God, then it's something else. The possible substitutes are limitless. In "The Americans," the central characters serve the god of the State, devoting their lives to Mother Russia and the "inevitable" triumph of a worldwide Marxist utopia. On the other side is an FBI agent serving justice. While the latter cause is vastly superior to the former, neither is the complete Truth. And while the characters make enormous sacrifices for their causes, their faith in their respective causes is not complete, since they continue to seek after transcendent spiritual truth (Stan, Stan's wife, Phillip, Paige). Elizabeth is the exception that proves the rule, since she steels herself against any spiritual challenge to Marxist orthodoxy, an ideology which she has used to insulate herself from introspection regarding the enormous amount of suffering she has endured and inflicted.Drama in the series is not driven primarily by spy derring-do, but is instead driven by internal conflict. Reality clashes with ideology. Consciences conflict with ideology, and in the end, one side is the victor in a tremendously satisfying conclusion.At times you may find yourself admiring Phillip and Elizabeth, and it is excusable, because they are sincerely misdirected. They believe that they have the truth, and they are willing to make enormous sacrifices for it (while also, sadly, inflicting great harm). But a ship sailing in the wrong direction can be turned around to reach its port. A ship with no engine will be forever at sea." I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were either one or the other!" --Rev. 3-15-17Will the ship turn around? See for yourself. You won't regret it.(One important caution. There are numerous graphic sex scenes and intense acts of violence, so keep the clicker handy to fast-forward over these scenes if necessary)]


                
This is THE best show on TV!!! It is up there with Game of Thrones for me. The story is about two Russian spies in the US. I love that the show is amazing due to its subtleties. It has an amazing cast, truly amazing, which encourages emoting without using words to drive home the point and build on their characters. I am watching the final season now and am absolutely hooked. I plan to watch it again from the beginning. I must have watched GOT so many times by now, at least 4 or 5 times. While The Americans is not as easy a watch for me to see it so many times, it is a little piece of treasure that should be on every must-watch list. And the best part is that at no point does it lose steam. At no point ever. Many shows get famous in Season 1 and get ruined either due to studio pressure, more budget, changes in directors, or an actor becomes Executive Producer and is envious of other characters becoming more popular and the shows become single-focused on one character, etc. At NO POINT does that happen with this show. It retains its tone, focus, and characterizations till the very end which is what enriches it, because how boring would a show be with focus on just one character. I have absolutely loved this show and am truly sad that it will go off-air soon. I am so surprised that it has not won any awards because the cast is so much more deserving than many other shows out there. Probably because it is so subtle and the marketing of the show is not loud. But really you must watch this show, else you are missing out. It is thrilling, subtle, emotional, and makes you root for the spies despite knowing what they are capable of and how bad they are for the country. You just can't help it. Matthew Rys is amazing, truly amazing, and while it is hard to empathize with Keri Russell she is amazing too. The show image says it all -- Keri has a gun in her hand while Matthew's hand is preventing her from shooting. That is the underlying tone throughout the series more towards the latter seasons, where duty battles with humanity.


                
For 6 years, The Americans has been the best drama on TV. While it will be greatly missed, it's a good time to wrap up - it's done all it can do. R.I.P.


                
One of the most clever, interesting and thrilling series ever.
There are lots of twists and "wow" episodes.
In opposite to lots of current tv series and/ or movies the story line is not fast but rather slow, interesting and deep. 
The casting and acting are simply PERFECT.


                
*Note: for the ones who says it is slow, it is deliberately paced and focused on great character development
* for the ones complaining that there is too much action, the show heavily changes in late season 2 and later in season 3 to focus more on character dev. IT IS WORTH IT, STICK WITH IT.This will be remembered as one of the Great(est) Dramas of all time. What a final season... The acting is superb (their faces can tell many words), the writing is poetic and stays true to the series, the directing is excellent in this season as well, and needless to say the sound design and score are on point. The show stays logical (maybe too logical for some), and its careful approach to developing the characters can feel slow at times, but when you recognize what they are doing and pay attention, it is very well worth the time.I think many of the quibbles some fans have is that we have become used to expect shows to go a certain way, and when we can change the direction of the show we get annoyed. No, not all shows need to go into fan-service mode. The Americans started and ended as a story about marriage, relationships and loyalty first, and spy-craft and action second. The show doesn't need explosions to reach dramatic superlatives. And, we honestly shouldn't expect this show to just go do what other shows did (would be boring and they would probably fail at topping them) - mainly talking about Breaking Bad since people love to compare subjective art. And, in The Americans, characters are conflicted and complex, so expect them to surprise you and behave like real people.If you re-watch the show with this in mind, it becomes a much richer and better experience (I did just before S6 started). And, it is truly a show that gets better each time (there are so many things I missed the first time around). The Americans, I will miss you a whole bunch... There are few other shows attempting long arc story dramas anymore, and the ones that are left are focusing on world building and huge CGI productions.* for the ones complaining about Paige, FU... This is one of the best arches of recent memory. Taylor embodies this character and it makes sense given all the stuff she has been through.


                
Just finished the entries series. Seriously one of the best series ever


                
It is very rare that you have a near perfect episode, especially of a series on commercial television. But FX has done it here with The Americans. It is nearly flawless. Great mind candy for the thinking person, with something to come back to after the first viewing. I credit the success of The Americans to 3 things: Great script, great music, and Keri Russell!The script is adult, no-nonsense storytelling built on an original premise, the Cold War. Those of us who are old enough remember this period, a period of the Russians-are-coming hysteria that was second only to the Civil Rights movement the decade before. An era very under- represented in film and ignored on the small screen, comes to life for a new generation.Of course this era would be nothing without the music of this time and again, The Americans is flawless with that, the set, music, cinematics and of-course acting!Must mention these disguises too, which are not your silly, unrealistic mission-impossible disguises. No, the disguises in The Americans are really disguises and surprisingly, with very little disguise. What makes these disguises work for the Jennings is that the Jennings can act. With each disguise is a new personality.Elizabeth, played by Keri Russell, is special! Russell takes the art of disguise to the next stage. she is authentic, smart, gorgeous and just plain savage! Keri Russell is wonderfully dangerous, stellar, sexy and I can't get enough of her!I think Keri Russell's presence in this series is the key to everything. Only she could have this cold outside look hiding a wounded soul that hangs on to what she believes in.It is not only about the plot, but also the human toll the Cold War claimed in its path.I think the series is very well rounded in terms of casting and writing. It has a rhythm that keeps the audience on edge.The series has everything: originality, sex, espionage, suspense...did I say originality?


                
***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***There is no shortage of spy shows out there, but this one really stands out from the crowd with the way it skillfully weaves together the political and personal aspects of what an agent's life might be like. Philip and Elizabeth are so completely believable as a married American couple that when the switch is flipped and they go into killer spy duo mode, you won't understand what just happened. The really amazing part of this show is how it's not really like a switch triggers their alternative identity, but rather how both characters have to juggle a constant balance of parenting their very real children and maintaining their covers while also protecting their ultimate loyalty to the Motherland. Their assignments are long term, so they have to actually live the lives that have been created for them. It's never a clean line between their double identities: Elizabeth folds laundry while developing photographs of their surveillance work; Philip tries to find greater happiness in his marriage by attending self-help classes while simultaneously using the sessions as a way to get closer to an FBI agent. The house rule of the kids never coming into their parents' bedroom at night is not just because they might be out doing their spy thing during the wee hours, but also because they might be making love. Really an amazing work. Brilliantly written, exceptionally acted, completely immersive. Doesn't get better than this.
The best thing about the Americans is the setting during the Cold War that recreates the political tension between the US and Russia.The plot follows the lives of two Russian spies as they enact operations in the US under the guise of being two Americans, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings, living in suburbia with their son and daughter and running a tour operator. The series manages to maintain the level of drama and suspense throughout as the net is slowly closing in on them as Stan Beeman (who is also their friend and neighbour) and his FBI colleagues close in on them.From a political perspective, the series examines the differences in the doctrines of Russia and America, and Philip in particular finds it difficult to resolve the two whereas Elizabeth is much more hard core about staying loyal to the mother country. There is also conflict within the family between the parents and their teenage daughter, Paige, who comes to find out about their secret activities.It is not often that one comes across a gem of a series like this one and you will find yourself being sucked into its world. Really high quality performances are put in by the two lead actors, as well as Noah Emmerich (Stan), Frank Langella (Gabriel, a Russian controller) and Lev Gorn (Arkady, a Russian spy working out of the Russian Embassy).


                
I have waited none too patiently for the return of The Americans for season 3, and it's finally here. Last season ended with such a surprise.Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys star as "The Americans," Russians trained as agents who live in the US as normal people with two children. Their cover is a travel agency.The marriage was arranged, of course, but over the years, feelings do develop. But while Elizabeth (Russell) remains firmly committed to the Communist ideology and tolerates the lifestyle for her cover, Philip (Rhys) kind of likes the perks. However, they're both tough agents.Both use a variety of realistic disguises. In fact, Philip is married (yes, married, and you should see the disguise for that one) to a woman in the FBI office, Martha (Alison Wright), in order to get information from her. Her boss is played by Richard Thomas, and one of the operatives in the office (Noah Emmerich) is Philip's and Elizabeth's next door neighbor.With their children growing older, and their daughter Paige (Holly Taylor) finding religion, the situation is becoming more difficult at home. Plus, their handler (Frank Langella) wants them to turn Paige. Philip is against it. As of now, we don't know what will happen.Danger, death, discovery - all can happen at a moment's notice. This is an exciting, well-acted show, with the Welsh actor Rhys excellent, with no hint of Welsh in his American accent. Russell is made to look a little on the hard side here, but still beautiful, and she does a terrific job.I love the show with its quiet tension and the subterfuge. Highly recommended.


                
