I liked the first few episodes of The Americans. They had the right mix of ingredients: Action, Espionage, Sex, Love, etc. But after watching the whole first season, I got turned off more and more by the unrealistic and lazy writing and decisions. Why did the Russians ever lose the cold war if they were able to churn out unbeatable and undetectable super spies like this? How did the Americans ever come out of the cold war ahead if they are so unbelievably inept and storm trooper like stupid? I guess wigs and glasses are such perfect disguises that during the 80s nobody was able to see through superficial changes on a person. It is painful to watch how the actors have to avoid the natural instinct to touch their partners hair when he is in disguise. How can a woman go through months of relationship and finally marriage without ever touching a man's hair (and thus blowing this whole set-up)? Throughout the whole series it is being kept alive by the god-like abilities and intuition of the Soviet spies and the stupidity and ineptness of the FBI. All in all way too unrealistic to enjoy for more than a few episodes.
If you are willing to dumb yourself down and ignore gaping story/plot holes that make no sense, then perhaps this show is for you... if you demand realism and factual rigor from a show then I would recommend passing on this show.This is supposed to be a story concerning professionally trained spies, but after watching the first episode there are one too many things that just don't make any sense and seem to be a symptom of lazy writing, and a failure to imbue actual realism enough to make a believable story.1.) The main male character leads the neighbor, a trained counter- intelligence FBI officer, to the inside of the garage within 2 feet of his captor who has been in a trunk for more than 2 days. The captor has presumably been relieving himself in his pants numerous times and at this point and would have a strong smell, but this goes unnoticed. A trained spy would never have taken this risk, this makes no sense. red flag #12.) After his wife comes in to the garage and confronts him, she decides to let the husband make his own decision about what to do with the prisoner, after previously telling him that she will not allow him to turn the prisoner over to the neighbor... is she willing to take the risk that he may turn him over, or is she not, this makes no sense. red flag #23.) The couple dump a body in the river. They sprinkle drops of acid on the body and then put it inside of a sealed bag, then throw it into the river without weighting it down. Why would you sprinkle a bottle of acid on a body, why not completely make it sink or completely destroy it? this makes no sense red flag 3#In a day when there are too many talented writers out there, it just seems offensive that there could be such gaping unrealistic plot holes, how can this show be expected to be taken seriously when they don't apply factual or realistic rigor to their story?Sorry, I'll pass....
Lasted through a couple of disks of Season 1 and found my tolerance waning. Our government agents, the FBI, and the Soviet KGB are shown in an improbable and often ridiculous portrayal. If they acted as the way this series attempts to illustrate, it would take one far-reaching stretch of the imagination to buy into the episode writers' scripts. I see there are some plaudits in other reviews regarding this program. All I can say is-- that's all well and good. But for me and others its something else.


                
After watching 4 episodes of The American I decided to call it quits. For me there are too many characters in this story, and all of them are totally unlikeable. There has to be a person a like, that I can identify with but this show lacks that. This Russian couple, really, they are so annoying. They are so awfully styled, and their home makes me sick, so distasteful. She fights for mother Russia and hates the American way of life...as if communism was still top of the bill in 1980. It wasn't and everybody knew what was going on there, the many political prisoners and an economy that only produced atom weapons and totally useless plastic cars. And this fight from the Russians against Reagan's Star Wars...Man! It was joke back then, nobody took that serious! Remember Two Tribes by Frankie Goes To Hollywood? Thats how politics were mocked. How many people tried to escape Russia but mom Elisabeth keeps hailing it. I can't and I wont buy this for real, not even in a fiction series. The murderous assignments this couple has to pull of drain them emotionally and physically. So do they go on like mad man? I would have loved some suspense, but this show is just plain in your face low life's...zero romanticism or elegance, nothing, just pure bleak misery. To make a long story short: this show is so washed out and a big cliché.


                
Boring. No action. New characters, out of nowhere.


                
If u check sites on what are the best series off all time u will see breaking bad,sopranos,Americans on top of these lists. It seems people enjoy now anti heroes. I give this series 2 stars. 1 star for acting. 2nd star for directing/atmosphere. Everything else is just awful. I cant relate with these people since they are cheating,murdering,lying bastards. If they got killed it wouldn't faze me at all. There wasn't a single moment of compassion,kindness,forgiveness,generosity in the main characters. I sicked in the hopes the fbi people will have some moral compass. But nooo...one fbi guy kills another guy in cold blood. No justice, no remorse. Nothing.Do we really need to see this? Im asking u the reader. Do we need to see a innocent life taken? (which the main characters plenty of did) Do we really need that long long scene of hitting someone repeatedly? DO we need to see both main characters commit adultery so many times? Lying to each other so many times? All this has an effect on our mind. Its a fragile,sensible thing our mind. Just think about it if u had 24 h to live and u knew you will die somehow shortly. You just watched 10 h of the Americans. 10 hours of torture,deceiving,murdering,violence... would you feel proud? Would u say: Man that was time well spend! I would look back and feel ashamed and disgusted that i wasted my precious life for this.


                
Is it just me or did season 5 drag on horribly to the point of losing interest, good gravy, I hope the writers drink a little coffee and get off of their collective butts and add some action to season 6.. you'd think these hacks were trying to re-write an Ayn Rand novel. I'd rather watch paint dry than sitting through another painfully slow,.. extremely slow (and lacking content) season.
Poor characters, far from realistic story, well.. Made by Americans for sure! For Americans. Why do they even try and call it "drama" then in the end it is always become a farce parody on "people from soviet". It is some traditional American actions in this movie, that is why 2 stars. By the way, what is the Russian agent trying to do with the gun in his own garage at the end of the pilot episode? Shoot? Neighbours would be happy I quess.


                
Our attention is now much more strongly directed towards the female perspective and female issues, as distinguished from male/female action. Gender separation and female empowerment seem a major concern. Men are marginalized in terms of action and moving the plot forward. Much greater emphasis on static situations such as lengthy shots of line dancing. The slow-moving plot is now carpeted with more extensive music than in past seasons, seemingly for no other reason than to help the unfolding of scenes.


                
Started slow with promise.Then introduced central theme of an awkward, frumpy affair with a pathetic government woman that was simply gross. It was embarrassing to watch.I gave up on it.Why create something so ugly? As far as giving it another chance, "I say Nay." They found an audience and they're not going to mess with their market share.What really hurts is that Allegiance was so much better. Season 1 was exciting. And it gets canceled.
Couldn't stand it by the end of season one. Russian spies doing whatever they want, however they want, whenever they want. FBI baffled and outplayed, always. Should have lasted one season with the finale showing their own kids shooting them.
It's fx what did I expect. Thought the first couple episodes showed promise and it rapidly fell apart into unrealistic idiocy in record time. I probably would have given season 2 a go if I didn't notice it goes on and on for many more seasons. Having to endure totally unrealistic FBI screw ups and heroic, super human Russians who somehow do whatever they want, whenever they want and however they want sounds like torture. I watched to the end of season 1 hoping to see Elizabeth and Philip get shot in the head, maybe even by their own kids. No such luck.


                
This should have been 2hr movie with their kids slashing their throats at the end. Sorry to spoil the 6 long and agonizing seasons to find out that doesn't happen. Actually I should admit that I bailed after season 1 when it was obvious the brilliant, indefatigable, unstoppable, so cleverly disguised Russians would get away with anything they want. I didn't waste more than 3 minutes reading how it ended, and I that's all it took anyway. That said, a great show for the modern day "binging" types who run out of Walking Dead/Breaking Bad episodes to watch. Not that there's anything better to do with free time than watch...well.. anything.
I was born in Soviet Union. I'm proud to be an American for the past 25 years. This serial is in on the verge of Russian propaganda mixed with some racial and social struggle overtones. Pertraying our FBI agents, especially conterintelligence officers as being incompetent, dumb, weak and inferior to Russian spies is just preposterous. They physically win any fight, easily penetrate the most hardened military or secure political dwelling, while having unbelievable luck - was just too annoying. Glorifying the life and death of a person who betrays his country for whatever social disagreements he has, makes this movie stink and made me stop watching this garbage.


                
Horrible accents, people pretending to smoke, all around bad acting and crappy writing. I tried hard to like this series but it was so implausible.


                
Overrated would be a masterpiece of understatement. Like watching a horrible b movie where the Evil Dr. Whoever gets away with his sinister little plots over and over and over and over and over. And that's just the first season and a half.
