I served 2 years in Soviet Army. The military uniform worn by Soviet KGB General is laughable. Absolutely horribly wrong! Generals did not wear boots in the office, regalia is wrong, haircut unseen in Soviet military. I was laughing so hard during the scene in Moscow KGB office. It's a caricature of a high ranking Soviet officer. I did not expect a complete correctness in depiction of Soviet realities but some of what I've seen was poorly done. Everyithing goes for naive American audience. I haven't missed a single episode yet because it is intriguing. I'd prefer to be focused on on the content. But when I saw scenes that supposedly took place in Moscow, listened to the conversations in Russian then I got an impression that authors cared about overall impression without paying much attention to details.


                
I have to say i enjoyed the first 4 season but i think it is loosing its way somewhat. For me the worst thread in the story is the daughter, its either the actress or the script, she is just to whiny now, probably why Gabriel parted saying that she should never be allowed to join them. Im hoping she can go to Uni far far away and be written out.The pacing was fine in season 1 to 4 but it seems to have slowed down allot and some times is almost plodding alone. There have been some good individual episodes in season 5 but i want them to get back to the hunt for secrets and spies and not plod on with this whole family thing.


                
Probably not realistic at all, but a spy story needn't be. It's the myth of the undercover spy we love, and this show offers up a pleasant contribution to the genre. If you're of a mind to, you can also walk away from this thinking about what other secrets normal-looking suburban families might be hiding all around you. Any TV show that simulates even one random interesting thought in my head is already far ahead of the pack. I also enjoy the ironic humor whenever the KGB spies have to smile or clap at flag-waving events to appear average.Fully 50% of why the show worked was the music. I'm never sure who to credit for this. The series creator? The music editor, Lisa Arpino? Whoever we should praise found more good music from the 80's than I remembered there being, and its presence in the show enhances the story. It isn't too terribly on-the-nose about what's happening visually or emotionally, which would only be irksome. It's not randomly inserted either. It's (as Goldilocks says) just right. A+ on that.So much television is awful, and while I try to give new TV shows a chance, they almost always live down to my expectations and reaffirm that commercial TV sucks. HBO, BBC, and Showtime do some good work, as do an increasing number of basic-cable channels. FX has a winner here so far, though it's a shame what is good about the show's drama gets so severely undercut by commercial breaks. I don't own a TV, and usually I get my TV as DVD sets a year later, and I tell you, commercial breaks utterly ruin a drama and even create clumsy stutters watched on DVD. Shame that's going on here; without all those awkward breaks, it'd be a better show still.


                
"The Americans" is about two deep cover Russian agents who live in Washington, with their two kids and a successful travel business. Already struggling to keep their missions and activities secret from their children, their lives are further complicated when Stan Beeman ( Noah Emmerich) an FBI agent, moves in across the street and their kids become friendly. Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell do a tremendous jobs of portraying the central couple of "Phillip" and "Elizabeth". Initially convinced that they are doing good work, despite the deceptive nature of it, Phillip becomes less sure of this as the show progresses - especially when called upon to eliminate a target. Though initially paired by the state, Phillp and Elizabeth have grown to accept one another and their fondness is blossoming. Phillips doubts, as well as external relationships both real and staged are affecting the couple and Rhys and Russell perform this relationship really well. The show did a great job of recreating the 70's and 80's and there are some great music cues across the run. It felt like grown up television, never afraid to be sad, or vicious and confident in the central pairing to carry the show forward. The acting has always been top notch, with so many other actors away from the centrals providing notable characters and though I have enjoyed the series through the years watching it, I do look back now and struggle to remember many memorable incidents or sub plots from across the years. I won't ever sit down and watch it again, but if you haven't seen it, it's worth a go.


                
SPOILER: Recently wrapped up "The Americans' after having watched the first 5 seasons on Prime. Really was disappointed with Season 5 and the directions the series was going, in particular the Paige story line. Season 6 the writers got back to the original premise of married Soviet spies being embedded in the US, under the guise of being a typical American family who owns a travel agency, living in DC under the very nose of the FBI and CIA. There are many absolutely preposterous moments and premises in this series. It takes Stan Beeman, the FBI agent next door 6 seasons to finally figure out that Elizabeth and Phillip Jennings are Soviet spies and when they have the confrontational moment, with Stan holding a gun on the two of them, he listens to their explanation that they are only trying to help Gorbachev proceed with the nuclear disarmament negotiations with President Reagan. And after Phillip and Elizabeth have continually deceived him, and killed numerous other American agents, he swallows their premise that they are going to head back to Russia and are finished with spying. Naturally Stan lets them go. Such nonsense is fairly common in the story lines. Nevertheless, it is a mostly entertaining series, plenty of violence, sex and some good suspense. Keri Russell is terrific as Elizabeth-as a spy sometimes she is playing a naïve girl, sometimes a slutty seductress, sometimes a business woman-but beneath she is absolutely capable of ruthlessly killing virtually anyone standing in the way purposely or innocently of the Soviets achieving the objectives. Mathew Rhys as Philip is also capable of cold blooded murder but early on in the series decides he wants out-but he's not sure how to go about it as his wife is totally and unquestionably committed to the Soviet ideology.Plenty of different characters during the run of the series and it does get a bit confusing keeping track of all the story lines. Some are more preposterous than others and how no one seems to notice the wigs they are wearing as they assume identities is beyond belief. All in all, pretty good series.
Yes, really, this show is a masterpiece in its own way. The best piece of post-Soviet propaganda ever. Made by Americans, delivered by Americans, I wonder who paid for that. I did not find any other Americans btw, oh yes I forgot agent Beaman, and few more shmaks that he had to protect and served but they got killed on spot, you know those supper Russian spies. Amazing, they can drop innocent bystanders and go back to there tender family world, for the love of country of course. No PTS, no drugs, no drinking problem. I'm sure six season reveal that they are alien, but tss no spoilers here.
That wedding scene ..., I was crying. Nazi-smazi, forget it:memories of farther from shooting command and the song about soldiers that did not come home. Stroke of pure genius, instant masterpiece.
«Russian World- meaningless and merciless", cannot wait for next season.


                
The long fourth season of The Americans came to a close tonight. There were plenty of twists and turns throughout the season and several departures from major characters. Many critics have dubbed this show one of the best on television but I've always found it a little slow for my taste. I've stuck with it this season just to see what happens, waiting for the payoff that shows like Dexter got completely wrong and Breaking Bad did so well.The breakout performance of this show is Alison Wright as Martha Hanson, the secretary to the FBI Director and love of the mysterious Clark. Clark is Philip Jennings of course, the brilliant Matthew Rhys has done a great job showing how torn Philip is with the decision to inform Martha of who Clark really is and execute the orders from the center. The other storyline that will stay with me for the rest of the year is the fate of Yung Hee played by Ruthie Ann Miles. Keri Russell's Elizabeth became fast friends with the cover of a pyramid scheme-like makeup sales opportunity. Elizabeth works her way into the family only to get to her scientist husband Don, played by Rob Yang. The seduction and betrayal actual take a toll on Elizabeth who has been so coldhearted throughout the show.After the fifth season: The next to last season of the interesting yet incredibly slow FX spy drama builds tension throughout the episodes. The show starts off by reintroducing Elizabeth (Keri Russell) and Philip Jennings (Matthew Rhys) on a new mission, pretending to be a pilot and flight attendant with an adopted son Tuan (Ivan Mok). The Jennings actual daughter Paige (Holly Taylor) has learned that her parents are Russian spies and is having trouble coping with this knowledge. Her priest has also discovered this secret and uses it to test Paige's faith. Elizabeth takes an active step in Paige's transition by helping her train in combat and revealing that she was assaulted.Stan Beeman (Noah Emmerich) investigates a new lead as he protects an old contact in Russia. Paige is dating Stan's son Matthew (Danny Flaherty) but can't stomach lying to him about her true identity. Stan's Russia contact Oleg Burov (Costa Ronin) is now investigating a case for the KGB as he faces an investigation into his life and past. The FBI urges Stan to turn Oleg but Stan refuses because of their bond over a former lover. Stan also has a new girlfriend Renee (Laurie Holden) who Philip suspects is a Russian spy sent to work Stan. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
I've watched the whole thing. That says something. Earlier I rated it a 9. Now I give it a generous 7. That says something too.


                
Too much too fast and too unbelievable is my current judgment on this new series, after watching the latest installment from March 6th.Sure, it's often a fair criticism of TV series that they develop their ongoing story lines too SLOWLY but The Americans seems to have the reverse problem. Things are happening too fast. For example, check out the most recent episode: The FBI agent is working with the female mole at the Russian embassy who fears for her life because she has heard from the "Resident" at the embassy that the Russians suspect a mole has penetrated their HQ. She confides her fears to the agent and within MINUTES of "TV time" he gets diamonds planted in the Resident's purchase of tea and manages in no time to get the KGB suspicions planted onto the Resident, who is caught with the planted diamonds and then immediately shuffled onto a plane back to "Mother Russia" where presumably a bullet to the back of the head awaits him. Problem solved and mole now safe! Re "unrealism": at the same time the KGB, worrying about the leak, kidnaps its own agents, the couple who are the "heroes" of this series, pretending to be FBI agents and subject them to "torture" (pounding with a phone book, dunking head in water---rather mild tortures by supposed KGB standards) in order to test their loyalty. After a few minutes of this torture, their KGB handler steps in to stop the test, but herself gets beaten up with an inch of her life by Keri Russell, who can't abide having their loyalty suspected---although she herself knows full well that her husband has already confided a desire to defect. Does anyone really believe the KGB would have handled this situation this way, OR would have tolerated their agents attacking and beating up their handlers in response? Worth watching because of the show's total unpredictability but please nobody should pretend that The Americans is in any way a realistic portrayal of the way "spy versus spy" worked back in Reagan Cold War America. If the Russians had been this dumb we would have won the Cold War in the 1950s...
When I was in college, back in the 1960s, my friends and I used to watch 1950s monster movies and science fiction movies on the late show. Much of the fun arose out of the unintentional absurdities in those movies, including everything from the poor production values to the corny dialogue to the scientific nonsense. We did not use the word "camp" to describe these absurdities, for though we had the concept, we did not yet know the word.Then, in 1966, the television show "Batman" made its debut. This was, to my knowledge, the first time a movie or a television show deliberately had camp value. As a result, there was a lot of confusion when it first aired. Children took the show seriously and enjoyed it on that level. Most adults realized it was supposed to be funny, even if they didn't actually care for it. But there were a fair number of people that took the show seriously the way children did and criticized it for being juvenile.I first started watching the show "The Americans" only a couple of months ago. On the very first episode, I found myself laughing. I wasn't laughing throughout the show, but only occasionally. I would be taking it all seriously, and then something would happen or be said that would make me laugh. By way of contrast, I never laughed when watching "Homeland." After a few episodes, I started wondering if there was deliberate camp value in this show, only much more subtle than in "Batman."I suppose the first clue was the hammer-and-sickle symbol of the Soviet Union being used as the "c" in the word "Americans." Then there was the "Ozzie & Harriet" cover for the two spies, Philip and Elizabeth. Now, every sitcom family has next door neighbors to interact with. This does not happen so much with serious crime or spy shows. We never saw Joe Friday interact with his neighbors in "Dragnet." We never see James Bond at home, let alone see him visiting his neighbors. But in "The Americans," we do have neighbors, and what could be more appropriate than for them to have an FBI agent living next door.And while I thoroughly enjoy watching Elizabeth kick butt and waste the "bad guys," something inside me cannot help but be amused by it all. She is all communist. Philip, on the other hand, thinks about defecting, is less likely to kill, and feels guilty when he does. He is the weaker of the two. In other words, as with many comedies, the husband is dominated by his wife.What really capped it off was when their daughter Paige discovered Christianity and wanted to start going to church. I don't know much about the actual spies Soviets planted in this country who were married and had children, but I should think the Soviets would have wanted the family to go to church to enhance their cover. In this show, however, the Jennings have apparently never gone to church or given their children any religious upbringing. And so it is that when Paige gets caught reading the Bible, Elizabeth is appalled. Speaking later to Philip, she comments about how horrible it is in America, what with all the churches and synagogues, all that "opiate of the masses" everywhere you look. How can they have her drop a heavy line like that and not expect us to laugh?Finally, there is the way Philip, pretending to be Clark, insists on keeping his glasses on even when he is having sex with Martha. All I can think of is that this is an allusion to another Clark who, we were expected to believe, could keep people from guessing that he was Superman by making sure he kept his glasses on too.However, a friend of mine assures me that this show is not intentionally camp, that it is meant to be taken seriously. But I think we have another "Batman" situation going on.
I just saw the pilot and I thinks it's actually pretty good. Good enough to keep watching for a while at least. I am not in any hurry to see it though. There are so many well written TV shows out there. I mean it's no True Blood or Walking Dead or even Game of Thrones. But I will make it a point to watch another episode. It revolves around a Russian secret cell organization that sets up people in the US as American citizen. They completely integrate and have an entire life here with a family and everything. They even pay taxes. Its set in the 80's at the tail end of the cold war. I remember it being kind of a scary time where the clock was "ten minutes to midnight" and we had nuclear bomb drills at school, so it's kind of appeals to me. The first plot gave some background on the main family. A bad guy from the wife's past pops up again and her and her husband need to decide what to do with him. As I said, it's no breaking bad, but it was intense at points.
On the series, they kill many people because they are spies. But when their daughter, Paige, wants to go to church they go like "OOHHHHH NNNNOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!".


                
The Americans is a good TV drama, with some serious shortcomings.Firstly, there are way too many murders. 73 people are killed during the show's 75 episodes. I'm not against violence in TV dramas, but the sheer volume of killings was unrealistic. I suspect 73 killings are far more than all the USSR's agents ever killed in the USA since 1917. Also, many of the murders are completely unnecessary. I think the show would have been far better with a body count that was reduced by at least half.Secondly, I would have appreciated more insight into the political drama that was going on between the US and the USSR. The first few episodes do this well, but the politics are pretty much dropped entirely after the first season.Thirdly, we know the KGB was nowhere near as pushy with its agents as the show suggests. As former sleeper agent Jack Barsky reveals, the idea that they forced agents to do missions is complete nonsense.More importantly, the show is hugely biased towards an American political viewpoint. The Americans are always the good guys and the KGB is only given a thin veil to cover their evil. The Soviet perspective is never really given serious consideration, so the show fails to offer the viewer the proper sense of ambiguity. The KGB is far too often painted as a caricature villain (especially in the later seasons). Maybe the KGB was that evil, but for us to invest in the main characters' motivations, they need to be able to believe they're doing the right thing, and I think it's often too far of a stretch, even for the 100% committed Elizabeth. She is, after all, not an idiot. All too often, the motives of Elizabeth and Philip's handlers were far too obviously evil, and the couple simply accepted it. Philip was at least depressed by it, but neither of them really questioned their handlers' motivations in any serious way until the final season. Better writing could have given the KGB more understandable and compelling motivations.Still, I enjoyed the show. It's a good tense drama with some nice historical background. Personally, I prefer the German series Deutschland '83, which is a spy drama set in the same period, and which has none of the problems of The Americans, but it's a German language subtitled show, so it's a bit more of an acquired taste.


                
If you're a fan of cable TV dramas you will notice a similar pattern...super human abilities to live dual lives of the extreme kind and maintain a balance of normal daily functions. This show is no different. Two Russian KGB spies who live as a married couple with two kids in the burbs who maintain a successful travel business by day and are spies by night living complicated lives. Of course the wife weighing in at 100 lbs can kick the arse of any 220 lb man. These people must have phenomenal organizational abilities...we see mom doing laundry and getting the kids off to school. Somehow they eat and sleep and shower and go to school plays while battling the forces of evil. OK...so we all need to suspend this reality and accept it...turn the rational part of the brain off and get into the story plots.The tempo of the show is kinda slow actually. No over the top acting here, very understated and subtle. Keri Russel is excellent. She easily could have gone the perky cute route in her career and done very well. She chose dark and serious for this role and pulls it off well.John Boy Walton never seems to age. He is a good actor but doesn't convince me of his role. Something missing here. The show has a different feel than say House of Cards with a more elaborate production. It feels smaller, but there is an intimacy with this. I hope they emphasize what works can keep dishing servings of the same. Suspense is an art and it does not take a big budget to deliver.


                
