I had not even heard of this show but by chance, saw an ad for it an hour before the pilot so I thought what the heck, and watched it. I was pleasantly surprised, I really enjoyed it, much more so than I thought I would. It was not perfect as some reviewers pointed out, but for a pilot working out the kinks, I thought it was exceptionally well done. I love the concept of doing this show back in the 1980's when the "Soviet Empire" was doing everything it could to keep up with America in regards to technology, arms, etc. What better way to collect intel than to have "sleeper agents" embedded in American society for the long haul? I plan on catching this show on a regular basis and see where they run with it.


                
I've heard about this show countless times mostly in the US media.
I figured it was a very politicized show with the same old message
"US = Good, RU = Evil" This is what kept me from giving the series a go.
Only in late 2018 I've started watching and to my surprise It's not the case.
The show manages to give a fair and near unbiased view about Geo-politics, fractions, countries. espionage, ideologies.
Without telling you what to think or how to feel about it.
It doesn't demonize any side neither does it glorify the other.
For those whom refuse(d) to watch for the same reasons as me, if still curious just give it a try! It's actually a good show


                
Every season except the 5th ( season 6 pending), is exceptionall. Great acting and an often scary story. This show fits well in the Golden age of cable drama. This plays with you forcing the viewer to root for the bad guy. I especially loved the first three seasons. Definitely above the level of standard commercial TV. This show is something else. I highly recommend it


                
My wife and I started watching the show recently. We love it. The only problem is the daughter. She gets more and more annoying each season. If they'd just shut her up and have her hang around the house with a few meaningless lines like the son, we'd be happy. We're on season 4. So maybe she'll grow on us. It's not looking promising so far though.


                
Over all this was a good series. I didn't have a problem saying goodbye, it was time....


                
Born in 1982 the fall of the Berlin wall was my first memory when it comes to noticing concepts like news, global events, politics and what have you. On top of that having lived in both Russia and the United States (Iowa of all places) + having a Bulgarian boyfriend (being Dutch myself) I got very curious about this show and can't say I've come out disappointed.The Americans tells the story about two KGB sleeper agents posing as a regular American couple, going so far as to even have kids together and raise them with American/capitalistic values to maintain their cover. Their daytime cover is working at a travel agency while in truth seeking to defend the ideals they've been raised with and, of course, protect, defend and promote the cause of 'the motherland'.This is a great show (and I'm actually surprised it comes from Fox) in that it is nuanced and layered in what it means to believe in a cause, to defend it, even kill for it. There are no good or bad guys here, no black and white as is literally translated in the series when the lines "You Americans all believe in black and white, back home there is only gray" are uttered.There is a lot of sex and violence, sometimes too much, as I believe people can spill beans without having their brains either f****d out or blown out by a gun, but other than that it is a gorgeous series which made me fall in love and curious about both leads and now watching more of their repertoire I hope they'll both get far. Their performances are absolutely convincing even if the plot, in terms of historical realism, sometimes isn't. Even so, where historical realism is concerned, an A for effort in tone if not in fact. I for one am certainly hooked.
At the very least, THE Americans definitely fills the need for Cold War espionage drama. This War On Terror stuff's just not cutting it. And this show's chock full of secrecy, subterfuge, all of that. The idea that two KGB sleeper agents can embed themselves in American society and build and maintain a family makes for one hell of an intriguing premise. And what's fascinating about this is that, not only is the show inspired by a real-life KGB couple, but Phillip and Elizabeth are real people in and of themselves; they're well-drawn characters and it makes us feel for our ideological enemy at that time. But the show is also surprisingly dark. Keri Russell's character embodies this the most, but there's some savage stuff happening to people all the time (poor Martha, there's no good end for her). This is a terrific series, emotionally-charged and at times a nail-biter. Well-written, too; the relationships between the characters drive the stories a lot more than the spy stuff. It really sinks its teeth in and doesn't let go. And the best part is, it only gets better with every episode. 8/10
The Americans is a thoughtful, intelligent take on the spy drama genre. The drama's focus's on a pair of deep cover Soviet spies living the life of ordinary Americans. There's an osmotic quality to this drama, a thin membrane that separates the lives the husband and wife spy team lead as ordinary Americans from their other life as KGB agents. It becomes increasingly difficult for the characters to separate and compartmentalize their lives as the series progresses creating a sense of tension and conflict that plays out in their interactions with one another and those around them, including their children. Its not all intrigue either. There is enough action and conflict between the KGB and its US counterparts to keep the show interesting and satisfying. Perhaps the only downside of the series is the story line is at times a little far fetched. The bigamist relationship between the KGB agent and a woman he uses to collect information on the FBI is, in particular, not terribly plausible. That small limitation aside this is generally a good series. Its fair minded and balanced too as opposed to taking the simplistic line that the KGB is bad the FBI/CIA is good. The series also includes a diverse cast of capable US and international actors. In summary The Americans is well worth your time if you like sophisticated spy drama's. Eight out of ten from me.


                
First let me say that this is a very well done show! I LOVE the story line. I can honestly say that I have never seen this side of the spy world and it pulls you in almost instantly wanting to see how everything continues the next week! All the dramas inside the dramas just keep getting deeper and when a piece of back story is revealed it just gives you more to love (or hate) about each character! It's a great show!....however...having said that, it makes me sad to say I can't watch it! In almost EVERY episode there is soft porn; and yes, I watched several to see if they would cut back on it, but no...it seems to be one of the things they like to highlight. I still give this show 8 stars because of the story/acting/quality BUT, there is WAY too much graphic sex scenes to allow comfort watching this with ANYONE else other then my hubby! God forbid my kids are home for a visit and we put this on! BTW, I don't consider myself a "prude", and I understand the need to show how far the characters are willing to go to get the job done...but it can be done in a much less graphic way! I also HATE being spoon fed every detail instead of allowing me to imagine some of the details. I am really bummed I can no longer watch it.....
After all these seasons, and Elizabeth still smokes like teenager trying it for the first time. She doesn't ingest into lungs, she just pulls into mouth and blows out softly. Every time. Not very convincing for KGB.


                
I was wondering what if it took place today and the Jennings were undercover Islamic terrorists ? how would I react ? how would anyone react? up to a certain point we look a the Jennings with some sort of humanity , although many times they are horrible people with nice faces which is always interesting , but their aim was to destroy America , to impose soviet ideology upon its people , exactly the same as the Islamic Al Qaida terrorists today . anyway it is pretty good as it is , except the tendency to portray them as super man and super woman , and something keeps distracting me : Clark's wig , how does he manage to keep it overnight being a " beast in bed" ?


                
I'm engrossed by the plot, the acting and the quasi historical significance of this cold war spy drama. I wish the producers had spent a few more dollars on authenticating Washington, DC locales and culture.Examples: "McLean Police" -- there are no McLean Police; that unincorporated locality is policed by the Fairfax County Police.FBI agent meets mole at a hangout on "North 17th Street"; no one I know of in DC refers to a "North 17th Street". 17th St NW is just "17th Street!" There is no South 17th St.Philip catches Metroliner to NYC at a rustic train depot in Falls Church. A real boner: Falls Church is part of Metro area -- no Amtrak, no railroad service at all.Additionally many of the outdoor venues just don't jibe at all with the real world. eg: industrial settings on the Potomac, rural pond setting between shopping mall and the protagonists' home, tall buildings ostensibly in DC.I still enjoy watching the show -- only wish the producers and writers had access to a technical assistant who could have made it more believable by better relation to the real world.


                
Liking the fact stan beeman walks through the door with beers in hand as i think this is a mock of the scene where marlon walks into trumans house with beers on the truman show


                
....the 'fight scene' with the KGB defector - the guys been in a trunk for some 3 - 4 days and even allowing for him to get out (never shown) he somehow was able to 'hold his own' against a real threat on his life.I like the overall script especially the 'wife' to counter the 'husband' stating their kids are totally 'American' in their thinking her claiming the kids could become 'socialists' i.e. they could believe in the 'lie' that the CCCP claims is 'Amerika'.The couple are very believable and the 'wife' has a lot of issues that fuels her drive to believe in the most bizarre political cult ever concocted - 'Marxist-Leninists' actually care about individual's futures.Worth another episode viewing.
When I first saw the previews of this show, I was a bit skeptical. After all, the cold war is over -- what's the point of rehashing what happened in the 1980s ? And it looked like it was rehashing it from the point of view of Soviet spies living in America. After actually having watched the first 3-4 episodes, it's actually pretty interesting stuff. The writing is excellent and keeps you interested. The acting is excellent as well, with a strong cast. I assumed that it would be pro-Soviet Union, but it actually isn't. In one of the episodes, Elizabeth and Phillip help a woman to enter the Soviet version of the witness relocation program. Unfortunately, Elizabeth and Phillip are unaware of the thoroughness of the Soviet witness relocation program. For more details, you can check out Episode 3, "Gregory".Additionally, what helps maintain interest is that Elizabeth and Phillip are likable characters and you can see where they're coming from.Definitely worth watching..
The Americans is probably one of the most unique shows offered on television right now. The story about a couple of Soviet sleeper agents doing the dirty work of the USSR during the Cold War under the guise of an average American couple named Philip and Elizabeth Jennings is both riveting and at times, unpredictable and shocking, which keeps me coming back for more.
What a breath of fresh air to have the male lead (Philip) played by the wonderful Matthew Rhys, be the more sympathetic and conflicted of the pair. You actually feel Philip's growing angst and distaste for some of the missions "The Center" sends them on, while he's on his own, unsanctioned journey of personal self discovery.
Keri Russell, one of the best (in my opinion) understated actresses out there in tv, is a marvel as Elizabeth, who blindly drinks whatever party line KoolAid that her handlers in Moscow sell her to perform the mission and get it done, no matter what the cost is. She truly believes that The Center only wants peace and is trying to stop the big bad evil West from doing big bad evil stuff. In several situations, her character is outraged when a fellow Soviet is killed but shows no emotion of empathy when a non-Soviet, sometimes innocent bystander is killed. She has no compunction about killing a person outside of a mission because she didn't like they way he spoke to and hit on her daughter. Damn! I've never been drawn to a show so much where I disliked the main character so much (Elizabeth) yet couldn't wait to see what she was doing in the next episode. Messed up? Probably. But this is an excellent show where you don't have to like the characters in order to be fascinated by them. Keri Russell deserves and Emmy for her outstanding work.Of the supporting cast and their characters, I really enjoy Noah Baumbach's cool and watchful Stan Beeman, the FBI agent who lives across the street, unknowingly from the Jennings' Soviet spies. He plays it cool and close to the vest but manages to convey more with an expression than some can with loads of dialogue. I keep wondering when he's going to pick up on some of the subtle red flags about his secretive neighbors and put two-and-two together. My other favorite is Costa Ronin's Lev, the Soviet counterpart to FBI agent Beeman, himself a committed member of his intelligence community who's trying to sift through all the BS to figure out what's right and what's propaganda.
Like someone else stated, the show can move slowly at times but it's worth the patience to stick it out.I do wish they'd spend less time on the Jennings' daughter Paige because her wide-eyed angst, her incessant nosiness and whining are starting to wear thin. This is meant as no disrespect to the talented actress playing her. Just wishing the writers would dial it back a bit. There's enough drama between Philip and Elizabeth to fill the hour. Keep Paige and Henry in smaller supporting roles.I also wish the writers wouldn't make everyone at the FBI look so clueless and hapless while their enemies rarely mess up. I truly doubt they (the FBI) were so "in the dark" about this stuff when the real deal was (or may still be) happening as it's depicted here often. 
Nonetheless great show, worth investing the time into.
gHow Russia not win spy-war with great tuszhy asset of Nina and Nadezhda!? But seriously, great series! No punches held in showing the grim reality of geopolitical power play. If it lives, it may be an asset. If it's broken, another asset will be needed. One piece of ass is worth a million pieces of eight. These are no ordinary Joe's. These people are the definition of hardcore. But they are still human, and that's what brings the story to life in a powerful way.I guess you can't make a show like this without touching on some clichés, but all in all I really liked the approach. There's the occasional casual joke to be enjoyed and a lot of very decent acting. There is plenty to enjoy, not in the least the 80's atmosphere.All in all, a pretty solid show with an interesting premise and good acting. And fully binge-able on Netflix. That's important.


                
Everything about the show is great, except Paige! She is the most annoying and irritating character on the show with the exact same expression on her face throughout. There have been so many times I just wanted to punch her straight in the jaw (at least the expression would change a bit).
Watch the show, if you can get past Paige and Pastor Tim and his wife, ugh!


                
/refers to Seasons 1 and 2/ Due to my background, interest in history, and age I have always been keen on intelligence and spy creations, where different political concepts collide. Alas, most of such works are rather lopsided, with black-and-white approach via "we are good, they are bad", patriotism above truth, etc., that can be entertaining and compelling, but developing other realities and false concepts.Fortunately, The Americans is a bird of another feather, in spite of the fact that the series is created and produced by a former CIA officer (Joe Weisberg). Characters are versatile and strong, the events develop logically and smoothly (with some "color" added, of course, but not becoming ridiculous), and the Soviets talk Russian when appropriate (and its level is at least good, no annoying accent prevailing). As for the cast, it is evenly strong as well, there is no world-famous star "disturbing" to enjoy the integral context of the series. For me personally, Keri Russell as Elizabeth Jennings (Nadezhda), Matthew Rhys as Philip Jennings (Mischa), Holly Taylor as Paige Jennings, and Noah Emmerich as Stan Beeman gave the most memorable and varied performances.Regardless of brief summaries and flashbacks, it is still advised to watch all series in sequence. It takes time and effort, but it is worthy. I am looking forward to Season 3 already.PS Season 3 kept on and up. Season 4 to be watched soon.


                
Paige ruins the show for me. If it weren't for her, this show would be a 9 or a 10.


                
Rave reviews all over the place, I'm jumping in on this one and binge watch thruout this weekend!


                
I don't normally write anything about anything. This was a really great show. However, the ending was WAY too coincidental for me. Stan being who he was and where he was and how was a bit much for me to swallow. But, if that's how it was, that's how I was. All in all great show


                
This series is loosely based on actual events.
Russia planted longterm agents using the identity of dead Canadians.These were teamed as a husband and wife pair. They actually had kids during this assignment.The husband was a cyber security expert and moved to the USA with a new job. The FBI was aware of this cell and several others. 
This series is rather pro Russian. It makes the US to be the monsters and the FBI to be incompetent. It makes it seem that US traitors are very common. The major n actors n this go from murdering random US citizens to having some idea that this is bad. The supporting actors are good but I found the daughter to be rather monotone. She was the least effective actress in the series. The stories about her were rather boring. The storylines were decent and some of them were quite interesting. The main actor is Welsh and his American accent was very good. John Boy Walton had a turn as an FBI agent and was believable, if a bit incompetent. I thought the story line with Martha was overdone . Lets hope that the US is not as bad or as incompetent as was portrayed in this series. It does make one wonder.


                
I mistakenly identified Noah Emmerich (Stan) as Noah Baumbach in my recent review. Must've been hitting the 3 Olives a little too aggressively when typing this. Review stands: unique, well written show with a few flaws (too much Paige, clueless FBI, etc.). This is merely an edit of a review I made earlier. Cheers.


                
