I don't want to repeat everything that has been already said about this series.However, I think Keri Russell's presence in this series is the key to everything. Only her could have this cold outside look hiding a wounded soul that hangs on to what she believes in.It is not only about the plot, but also the human toll the Cold War claimed in its path.I think the series is very well rounded in terms of casting and writing. It has a rhythm that keeps the audience on edge.This is, in my humble opinion, the best of the genre since Alfred Hitchcock gave us Topaz and The Torn Curtain. I give it a 9.


                
Although I have found the series a bit repetitive over the years, the final season has been exceptional, with a beautiful final episode that will be always remember. 
I think is one of the shows that better uses the silence to explain things, and in the last episode music plays also a big role.
The acting of Rhys, Russell and Emmerich is exceptional and I'd love to see them in the nominations and awards' lists.


                
Who doesn't love a cold war drama set in the early days of the Reagan administration about deep cover KGB spies posing as a wholesome "all American" family living in a DC suburb? And in a perverted twist of fate, next door to the FBI counter-intelligence agent tracking these rumored agents, who exist primarily as mere urban legends in the paranoid imaginations of overly-thinking spooks. Needless to say, they ARE real and even more deeply rooted in Mom and Apple Pie than their believers would think possible. Not just disguised infiltrators, but perfect replicas of the Sears portrait American family in a simulacrum America as imagined by a Soviet espionage agency. That is to say 'Mom' and 'Dad' carry out often brutal espionage missions against the enemies of their Soviet homeland on American turf, while raising their 'American' kids, often with the unintended sit-com inducing results inherent in trying to maintain harsh Soviet-style discipline while pretending to be the indulgent and "decadent" parental units of innately suspicious, wise beyond their years 'tweens. Their situation is further complicated by a newly sworn-in US president with a more aggressive, anti-Soviet foreign policy, and their newly appointed handler "Claudia" - a matronly old Stalinist whom neither trust, and who will test the limits of their loyalties with far reaching consequences. By the first episode, the emotional complications of their own arranged-in-a-KGB training camp marriage are starting to take their toll on 'Catherine' and 'Philip' with the latter showing signs of a flagging fealty to the Motherland and a deepening emotional bond with his de facto wife. Catherine, for her part, while still the mentor-pleasing star pupil of her Soviet special agent training academy maintains her stealth focus on the mission. If her heart is with the former Panther she had recruited years earlier, her body is a machine that belongs solely to the state, functioning simultaneously as a sexual weapon and a shape shifting, blow- deflecting device that can pack a school lunch. Kerri Russell, even in her '80's 'mom jeans', could serve any Bond girl her dinner in a dog dish. Long story short: I'm just loving the s#*t out of 'The Americans', which could have just as easily been another 'Homeland' - in other words, more paranoid post 9/11 agitprop about the heroic government agents doing battle against a stealth enemy and his prayer beads. Unlike the aforementioned 'Homeland' that centers on Carrie Mathison's bug-eyed certitude of a turned 'evil-doer' in her imaginary-seeming cross hairs, 'The Americans', with the "blink and you'll miss it" sly humor so emphatically absent in the 'counterterrorism' genre it subverts, tells the story of subterfuge on American soil through the eyes of a Cold War nemesis. Where Homeland's Claire Danes channels Ann Coulter playing a Gena Rowlands 'woman-on-the- verge' protagonist you want to shoot with a horse tranquilizer, 'The Americans' - both husband and wife - dispenses with the Emmy-baiting histrionics, allowing the complexities of their characters to take shape through their interactions with each other, their children and the Americans they emulate. 'Catherine' can't seem to pronounce the A-word without revealing her contempt for her adopted homeland, while 'Philip' is at pains to conceal his love of hot dogs and a burgeoning middle-aged complacency at odds with the escalating danger of their missions. The perverse nature of their facades is encapsulated in a few second shot of the family appearing at the doorstep of their newly arrived next-door neighbors, bearing cake to welcome Mr and Mrs Beeman. The viewer gets a glimpse of the inner-turmoil behind their overly-rehearsed, "American" smiles with the knowledge that there is a near fatally wounded man bound and gagged in the trunk of the family sedan. Carrie Mathison would have pounded down their door at 3 am, brandishing a pistol and screaming about birthday cake until someone from Homeland Security dragged her back to her rubber room with a warning. Their friendly neighbor Agent Beeman, whose backyard barbecues they attend as a family, pursues them via a beautiful Russian consulate employee he has managed to 'turn' through blackmail, murder and sex, not realizing of course, his somewhat doofus neighbor 'Philip' and his lovely wife are the chimeric KGB phantoms responsible for the growing body count among his ranks, which in time will include his own partner. In the meantime, 'Philip' has honey trapped a plain Jane clerical worker in the FBI who thinks her new beau works for the Vice- President. Non-American actor Matthew Rhys as "Phillip" disguised as "Clark" the bumbling suitor brings levity and a lovely pathos to the otherwise heart-stopping drama. 'The Americans' despite its Cold War, espionage-based story-telling and often stomach churning violence is at heart, a very human drama about the charades involved in maintaining an 'identity' (we are all implicated as impostors), while highlighting the futile, tit-for-tat end- games played by nation states all claiming a non-existent moral high ground.


                
It is early days yet, but the pilot was so engrossing (and Fox infuriating with its endless barrage of commercial breaks), it deserved a review.Set during the Cold War when relations between the Big Two are still ebbing and flowing, we are taken on an intriguing ride on the back of an American couple: Phillip (Matthew Rhys) and Elizabeth Jennings (Keri Russell). They make an everyday pair but there is something brewing from (and between) them. Their motives are ulterior, the tension palpable, the strain of a highly dangerous mission clearly burdening them. Despite two kids, Elizabeth has a singular purpose, a determination not as concrete in Phil's heart which is in a state of mental flux. He is getting weary of the masquerade but is a thorough professional, as his slick talents in hand-to-hand combat and imposture bear testimony. Not every step goes perfectly to plan, though. A tricky hurdle comes their way and as Phil and Elizabeth eradicate it, she begins to understand Phil's dilemma and choses to defend him from her superior.Meanwhile, the FBI is hot on the trail of three people suspected of espionage, one of whom has a description. Through a cruel twist of coincidence, the Jennings become neighbors to one agent Stan (Noah Emmerich) whose sixth sense makes him doubt and investigate them, even as Phil gathers intelligence that the Feds have them on their radar. As the stakes in this fascinating game of cat-and-mouse rise, there are glimpses into who Phil and Elizabeth really are, what brought them here, and how they end up together.It is an engrossing story, interspersed with great moments of tension, decadence, and charm (who would've thought Phil Collins and Fleetwood Mac could make such inspired choices for background score?). The writing is top-notch. Matthew and Keri are excellent casting choices, since portraying enemies as genuine people is not as easy as it looks. A very positive start from the show's makers.Can't wait for the next episode!


                
I picked this up quite accidentally.. And i had absolutely no idea about the cast and anything else beside the tagline here on IMDb.How a spy's life can get twisted in his/her line of work has been delivered in a no non sense manner right from the first episode. How the spy starts to believe in the lie of their fake identities and subsequent emotions while carrying out their mission, leading to conflict in every aspect of their daily lives has been depicted very effectively. The pilot episode built itself quite nicely and never allowed the grip to loosen up. The actors gave a powerful performance and created an ambiance of palpable tension/anxiety/thrill and looked very professional while going about it. Cinematography seems to be very apt and complimenting as well. Must add.. The makeup artist/professionals need to be commended here. Solid start to the series.As i am not going to supply any spoilers, i will not be indulging too much here, but this series seems to be having the potential to carry itself in a subtle fashion, or it might morph into something very tense and power packed. Should keep the audience interested.


                
I don't know who to root for in this show. Awesome! Phillip and Elizabeth have been sleeper Russian agents in DC from the early 1960s to the early 80s, the show's setting. Reagan is the new President and is heating up the Cold War. Our two spies have been playing the role of typical American husband and wife, keeping their secret life even from their pre-teen daughter and son. Then an opportunity arises where Phillip, who has been tiring of his double life, is given a chance to take his family, whom he's grown to love, out of the game and into riches and safety. Elizabeth, also of two minds but for different reasons, is suddenly shown just how much Phillip loves her through his unhesitating sacrifice of this ticket to freedom. In the end it looks like it will be the two of them against the rest of the world. What will happen?I have a few problems with the production, particularly the flashback sequences of the characters twenty years younger in Russia. They really should have used different actors. It is just the pilot, though, so we'll see how that goes.On the plus side, there's good acting, good writing, and good character development. I'll be watching!


                
Brilliant acting and cold war era theming made this series so terrific that when you leave your house you feel that you've walked through a big change to the point that you ask yourself: "Why aren't there any Chevy's parked up outside?"The plot itself was excellent and the way they ended the first season makes the viewer desperate for another season to see how it would go on. Mostly what I liked about this show is the spy techniques used during those eras by the KGB and the way they operate their intelligence abroad; very spectacular.Lastly, I would have given it a 10 only if there was a better actor than Mathew Rhys (Phil); I've seen some of his other acting and I couldn't spot much of a difference.


                
I came into this show 14 minutes late and did not get up from my seat!! For a pilot this was an intense intro with just enough back story to keep you interested and not too much to kick you back.Keri Russell is a force to be reckoned with. A hardcore KGB spy willing to so anything to protect her country first! Matthew Rhys character, I see will be that added unknown to the show. You just don't know what he is thinking or will do. Does he want this life? Will he fight for it? so many questions. Keri though. . .I am very impressed. . .I will definitely be watching this first season to see how this all works out but so far they created one hell of a pilot!!
One of the best series ever made. From the very first episode of season one to the last episode of the final season. Superb and exquisite. While sometimes slow paced, it is very exciting. Full of plot twists and a lot of humanity. A great way to look at that time period during the Cold War.
Highly recommended.


                
So, the reviews here are either 10/10 or 1/10. If you've watched the Americans every week since its inception, as I have, I cannot, for the life of me, understand why you would give this particular, albeit ultimate episode, a rating of 1. This type of rating is put there, I think, simply to counterbalance the high ratings. A rather puerile approach by so-called reviewers who have clearly no interest in writing one which is either balanced or fair. To everyone else, watch it. Within this particular episode were moments where the acting was superb, the dialogue deftly written and the tension unbearable. My favorite scene was played out in the garage beneath Paige's apartment building. (Hat's off to Matthew Rhys and Noah Emmerich). And a big shout out to FX who sanctioned a commercial free zone for the finale to play out to full effect. There are layers of storytelling rarely seen in a TV series. In the case of The Americans I personally don't think it's about which "side" you root for, but being moved by the real human dilemmas each of the characters dealt with and played out to the bittersweet end.


                
Fiercely original, this show actually has you rooting for the bad guys. I think the thing that sticks out the most for me is the casting which is so out of left field it works: First you have the angelic looking Keri Russell who has always played the sweet and fragile type. Now she's a badass assassin who can turn on her dispassionate attitude at a moments notice. Second, you have Mathew Rhys fresh off his stint as a gay man on "Brothers and Sisters" who also is cold- blooded killer and torturer. Third we get Richard Thomas who was the iconic John Boy from "The Waltons" who portrays the head of the terrorist branch of the FBI. Lastly, we see Margo Martindale who was a nurse on " A Gifted Man" is now a KGB operative and ruthless field manager for other KGB agents. All of this works, and works well. The show is perfectly paced and credible with little "Hollywood" cliché and fireworks for a show of this nature, which sometimes becomes very intense and stark. Primarily based around Reagan's Star Wars initiative, this vehicle provides new insights and viewpoints of behind the scenes accounts of that era and the enormous complexity and preparation behind it, and doing so when technology was far less convenient than today. I only have one gripe and that is what is happening with their kids when their folks are away on missions? The show is rich with complex characters, sub-plots, and emotions, a true enjoyment to watch. I'm hooked.


                
The Americans is a show about love, about spying, about moral dilemmas and also shows an interesting settings for different relationships. It feels authentic, it feels real. The show does not try to portrait an awesome action setting for spies, or trying to beautify the reality. It shoves the ugly reality in your face, and leaves you there thinking about it. And that's why I think it's one of the best shows around.But the reason I love the show so much, is probably because it feels REAL. It shows people battling with their own thoughts, Trying to do their "everyday job", it shows them betraying one another's trust and trying to regain it, it shows them living with the consequences and it does it in a way that doesn't feel cheesy, or overplayed (at least for me). Also, the events and the small branching stories (having them based on real events) makes you feel really inside the situation, it gives you the jitters when you think the characters are about to be caught, or die. Even though some of the events are obvious from the start, they creators are still able to surprise you once in a while.


                
The Americans is an intense, emotional, vibrant, humane, and sad look at the espionage game. The acting is always great-particularly by Matthew Rhys-and the show remains well-plotted and compelling throughout its run. The only espionage writer who wrote novels like this was Graham Greene. Like Greene's Fiction, The Americans deals with characters who are always morally compromised, always embroiled in banal personal dramas, and always worn down by the decisions they've had to make. But don't just take my word on it. Watch it. It's worth it.


                
I have watched this from series one, and now as we are getting close to the end of the final season, I just had to say how brilliant this show is and only guess at why the ratings in the UK are so mediocre. Yes, it's hidden away on a minority channel at the dead of night but even so I'm flummoxed. The stories, acting and characters are all outstanding. If you've missed it, grab the box set - you won't be disappointed.


                
Although I believe it has actually only been on TV for 5 years. What a roller-coaster of plot and emotion! Creator: Joseph Weisberg certainly had a winner on his hands and Keri Russell, Mathew Rhys, Holly Taylor, Noah Emmerich, and my favorite character Nina played by Annet Manendru brought this show to life! Anyone who missed this series missed a real treat of entertainment, mystery, thrills, and suspense!My only problem was this last season which (as I understand) is the end of the entire show. It went out in a quiet frenzy with our two main characters making an edgy yet unremarkable escape. Maybe I'm being too picky because I did not expect this to happen. Whatever, I did enjoy this show start to stop.Bravo!
My childhood ended in 1981. I finished college, moved to another state to start a new job, and lived on my own for the first time. The Americans is set in 1981. The 1980s were the beginning of a new era the end of another. The 80s were a time of change. The news reports that set the back story, the tuna boat cars, and the funky hair styles unleashed a flood of memories for me. Some were good; some were not. The point is that The American evoked an emotional response from me and probably from others. That is the goal of story-telling, and The Americans does a good job of it. Don't make the mistake that The Americans relies on the current 80s nostalgia kick though. The plots and scripts are top notch, intricately woven to generate a keen interest from viewers. The Americans has a vast and talented cast that doesn't have huge names. You'll recognize many of them from co-starring roles. Perhaps Keri Russell is the biggest name among them. This is a plus as far as I'm concerned. The cast is very talented but their lower level of fame helps them become the characters that they play. They are so good that many will establish their careers with this series. It is their vehicle to fame. The intrigue keeps your rapt attention.


                
The AmeriKans with a k would have better. 80's Cold War turned hot view from the world of a Soviet deep cover agent couple living for decades in the US, played by Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys. They're not sleeper agents but very active; spying, infiltration, recruiting agents, wet work, codes, dead drops. They've got a job to do, and do so with no moralizing.It's Burn Notice minus the A-Team antics, Homeland with a realistic premise or The Unit with great script and character development. If you love the spy genre, look no further. But you may find yourself rooting for the other side though. (If they had only put in two younger characters for the few flashback scenes, it would be a 10. You need to suspend belief just a tiny bit when you see Keri supposedly years before.)The couple finds themselves at times trying to find love between themselves, a minor part of the story. But it's interesting because the script doesn't let them down. No, it's the two main characters who are deluded into thinking they can have a normal relationship considering all the outside screwing around involved in their work. They have a deep bond and two children, so who knows where that part of the story will go.The Truman Show's best buddy plays a convincing FBI lead, with John-Boy as the head of FBI counter intelligence. Great script with great acting from all including the supporting characters.Best show of 2013 for me so far, by far.
FX network deserves a lot of credit for ordering and supporting this show. It's not another pseudo reality show; not another stupid, fake competition; but an actual original drama, with terrific writing executed by a great cast. The show has unfolded in a well thought-out manner, by introducing in some depth all of the principal characters, with some well-placed flashbacks. Each week has been gripping and filled with plenty of tension and excitement. In that regard, it may be the most consistently exciting show since "24", one of my all-time favorites. The writing is at a consistently high level, which sadly is rare in recent years. It's so good that the writers manage to elicit sympathy for the Russian spies. If you watch the show from the beginning, you will have a great sense of each main character and their interactions with everyone else.I have been genuinely and pleasantly surprised by how good Keri Russell is in her role. Margo Martindale is always terrific, and is especially good on The Americans. Again, thanks FX for not shying away from putting on a thought-provoking and very original drama.I want to add a few lines now that this show has ended.
 My original review was done during the second season and absolutely nothing changed my thinking during the rest of the show's run. It was a very different concept for a drama and brilliantly done week to week. Exciting up to and including the final episode.


                
This is definitely an exciting show that has a lot going for it: historic detail, a cat-and-mouse element, suspense, serialization, and a wonderful performance by Keri Russell that has the potential to reinvent her as the Jennifer Garner of the 2010's.The plot holes in the premise, however, are enormous. The couple (Russell and Matt Rhys) are a pair of KGB spies who have been married 15 years and they are only now beginning to question issues such as whether they love each other? It also would be difficult for them not to see through Communist propaganda when they can literally see with their own eyes that the US isn't as much of a proletariat Hell it's been described as.If there was some event that happened while Elizabeth and Phil were in the US to renew their hatred of the mainland or some self-realization that "hey, maybe America's not that bad?" I could better get on board the reality of this series, but the show doesn't do much of either.Still, there's much to love about this show. It's exciting and it pays great attention to the small details.


                
Love the series! So well done in a 1980 period piece (gotta love those old cars... and look at the wall art in some of the homes!) The feel for me is so much like The Sopranos.... *character development. *twists & turns. *having to watch it for a while until you fully understand some of the spy lingo and methods of dealing with various issues (after you understand, you're going "oh... this oughta be good!). *waiting eagerly all week for the next segment. *beginning to identify with the bad guys.I wasn't familiar with any of the actors in the series but I've come appreciate the whole cast for their individual talents. And while there's not explicit sex scenes, there is bold references to the use of sex by the spys to accomplish their goals.I'm always wondering just how the writer know so much about the 1980s spy business.Keep it going....I'd miss it too much if it goes!!!!


                
...Would have been 10 if they'd just killed off Paige in season 3. Pampered, entitled, shallow, dim witted princess.Series sort of lost its way in season 4-5, especially 5, but remained watchable. Season 6 completely redeemed it completely.If only Paige had died young.


                
Based on FX's slick music video trailers, complete with a cleverly chosen 1982 Eminence Front track, I was really looking forward to some smart TV. Having seen the pilot, I'm a little disappointed with its shallowness and preoccupation with contemporary sex and race clichés, but I haven't given up on its potential yet.I was a kid and young adult in the 1980s and eventually enlisted in the Cold War era army. The cloak and dagger intrigue was a big part of popular culture then, both in movies and spy novels. This series reminded me much more of our 2010s obsession with sex crimes and white male bashing than the 1980s, though.First of all, our sleeper agent couple just happen to run into a bizarrely overt pedophile hitting on their thirteen-year-old daughter at the mall. He is, of course, a balding, middle-aged white male, the demographic for all villains in 21st century pop culture. Secondly, it turns out the female half of our undercover couple was raped while she was in training by, of course, a (Soviet) white, middle-aged male. Coincidentally, the rapist later defects and our couple are tasked with kidnapping him. Finally, the last of the three main characters of our story is an FBI counterintelligence agent who spent quite a bit of time undercover investigating (of course) middle-aged male white supremacists. Never mind that the KKK had become virtually extinct by the 1980s and had nothing to do with the cold war. Sigh.Naturally, our Soviet spy hero proves his worth, in spite of his communist upbringing and increasingly wavering loyalty, by killing the rapist and beating and threatening to kill the pedophile. His fake wife rewards him with post-disposing-of-the-body-of-the-rapist sex while Phil Collins music plays loudly in the background.Needless to say, none of these events have anything to do with the 1980s as I experienced them, or the cold war for that matter. The Americans has embraced a revisionist, PC condemnation of non-gay white males that we've also seen done in a more plausible and artistic way in A-list nostalgic shows like Mad Men. The Americans is trying to blend feminist Mad Men nostalgia with the double agent intrigue from Homeland. So far it is not as smart, original, or convincing as either. One has to do more than just carefully select good 80s music for the soundtrack to take us back to the 80s. As another reviewer has said, let's hope it gets better.
I give it 9 because I enjoy this shows so much, more like subjective reason rather than objective one. I haven't this excited since The Newsroom or The Killing, and Game of Thrones or Walking Dead just not my cup of tea (plus Dexter has been drifted away lately). I was hoping for new show that really driven me curious every episode, and this is it.The idea is still new and fresh, I could not expect more than Keri and Rhys for the cast (their chemistry is amazing). Despite all the flaws has been said here and there, I think people will enjoy and drawn to the story. It is interesting to see how sleeper work in their so called normal life. It may not too factual but at least it's feel more real than other Hollywood over-heroic spy movie (james bond, wink. I can't remember when was the last time spy in the movie used radio code signal to receive order). It's in between and it is a TV series. So, I guess 9 is fair enough. Some of detail may not accurately presented, but the plot compensate it. The cultural reference might not be greatly accurate, but I think it's a common problem with non-native movie maker (I am not American, and I laugh several time when Hollywood use my country for reference. Yet, it works both way.).Overall, it's one of TV series that worth watching this year.
Most find this as an entertainment piece. It truly is, but its much more than that. The Americans title is an ironic choice for a family that is so brainwashed to believe in the Pride of Russia, they are willing to destroy, like a nihilist, anything in their path, simply to get information.What I thought was remarkable was the anti typical choice of making the man realize he had a heart, while his wife was off determined to rationalize her behavior. He became the effeminate one, but for good reason, he wanted to be a human being.This show should demonstrate to silly Americans what our enemy will do to get our information. Russia has always been a victim of nihilistic zionists from the fall of Nicholas II who failed his country and allowed nihilists to form these socialistic frameworks into society.This is a show about brainwashing. It demonstrates the utter contempt for human life for the sake of The Cause. We have this problem revealing itself in this country in our politics, because people act as operatives to lie, cheat, steal, and even murder someone. This should be addressed as a society, but instead its just another news alert to make a profit from.Yes, I am concerned for this country because the picture is painted clearly; the Russians are coming, and although they are losers and always have been losers, 2nd rate power system who only works within the eco-system of organized crime, but still a force that needs to be defended against.But the idea that an FBI agent would actually make that decision was distracting and disappointing. Justice? Why would we offer that in this show? um, because that's why we watched seven seasons!This show demonstrates that justice never happens and to not expect it as we see in our current culture.Betrayal is in, organized crime is in, justice is nowhere to be found.The Americans only drawback was sitting too much on emotion and not enough on logistics. Often, after season 3, the reliance on simple issues of family problems became the all consuming part of the show. The heart of the show is the movement and getting away with a mission, not who was at home. They also spent too much time yelling at each other as after a while that is not drama or entertainment, but simply a time filler. The Americans' producers spent a lot of time with music and long walks and not enough on information. It slowed the show down and made it ordinary at times. All in all, it was one of the best shows on television.


                
This was a great show! Multi levelled with lots of twists and turns.
Paige indeed was a very annoying character but at the same time, they can be that annoying at that age.The last season was a suprise. It could not have a happy ending. But i never expected to end like this. I
was depressed when i watched the last scene.
What a journey! And if this would have been real what a dissolution to end up like that. Back home.
