I'd disregard taking any review into consideration from someone who says for Adult Swim to play more Family Guy and American Dad. This show is great, the comedy can be in your face or really subtle and witty at times. Eric Adre's skits are well thought out in my opinion, and Hannibal is one of the funniest co-hosts on any television show I've watched.The guests are great, the sketches in between the studio shots make me laugh harder than anything. Telling the Tea-Party that they "forgot their masks" was one of the greatest things I've seen on Adult Swim in awhile, and I've been watching since the beginning.TL;DR-At least give it a shot once, there's not one bad episode


                
I just finished watching 20 episodes of this show, I loved it. The show has great energy and insanity embedded in every frame, I recommend everyone to watch it with their families. Season 2 episode 10 had me doubt my sanity. The show is humorless, the host of this show "Eric Andre" keeps on vomiting and farting most of the time and that disgusting visual is supposed to be funny. The randomness and unpredictability of the show will keep you entertained, some bits are pure genius which can be observed only if you watch it with full attention. This show isn't for kids, and avoid seeing it with your parents/families at all costs. The show keeps repeating the same pattern, destruction of random things, crying, naked body, vomit, farts, emotional dramas, Sherlock, poems, piano, planets, Saturn, hawk and Obama. Overall the show is funny and hence humorless.


                
I've been watching adult swim since I was a young buck and they've managed to surprise me once again by how far they can take comedy away from the norm. I didn't expect much after watching the commercials but after I gave it a try, I became addicted. It's unlike any talk show I've seen before, the discomfort and awkwardness in the guests is clearly visible, partly due to Hannibal standing behind them during interviews. The sketches are original and hilarious and the comedic timing of Eric Andre is amazing. This show is better than Family Guy or Robot Chicken by a mile. The interview with a grizzly bear is one of the funniest things I've ever seen in my life.Eric and Hannibal make a great comedic team, give this show a try.


                
You flip through channels and you've seen it all. Building suspense over the most worthless of things, only to not even deliver on what's promised. Story lines that get rehashed over and over until you know exactly what's gonna happen next, when and how. Obviously staged happenings acted poorly with stunted emotional growth. TV, it's nothing but mindless drivel.Tim, Eric and Doug Lussenhop share my hate for TV (even the whole of entertainment business) and what it has become, what it may have always been. If not hate, apathy. Now, they have a new tool in their box, to unleash their furious vision over and on viewers lost in the void of the remote: one Mr. Eric Andre, supported by Hannibal Buress mainly.TV being mindless drivel, a show that is purposefully and deliberately mindless drivel is the logical next step. No ground is broken here, references are all over the place, conclusions aim to disappoint, segments are filtered through low-brow running gags. If you let yourself get agitated, you have lost.I love the creators of this show for giving us this fine fifteen minutes ten times a year. This show lets you release all the pent-up anger you've built over the years over crappy, boring and never-ending drama, entertainment, sports and news. Release all the dread you realize over the time spent on watching screens with moving images and sound through-out time. Just, forget it all and linger in the actualization of the insane that is and envelopes this world. Anything can happen next and the beautiful part is: you cannot prepare for the future, just let it in.I love this show. It does not look to cater to anybody. It does not deceive you into viewing. It does not exploit your emotions or deeper needs. It is openly, honestly and proudly what it is and as such transcends all media. It might treat the viewer like crap, but if you can't take it, you deserved it."Hey, you're watching Bird Up! The WORST show on television!"


                
Adult swim sometimes spews out some great comedy. "The Eric Andre Show" is one of those examples. It is a fantastic deconstruction of late night talk-shows with an extreme wacky format that alternates between interviews and silly skits. The show, in it's parodistic nature, shows the interviewees very uncomfortable and acting as if they don't want to be there while Eric asks very bizarre questions or makes obviously inappropriate comments toward them. Hannibal Buress also does a great job as the 'sidekick' to Eric, providing strange momentum and sometimes saying something that's fully incoherent and doesn't connect to anything whatsoever. The Introductions to the show are always funny and witty, showing Eric completely destroying everything in sight. I believe that this show is a hidden gem, since it's probably overlooked by critics and has a late time slot at 12:30 A.M. You can't just watch one episode and dismiss it. This show will crack you up if you give it a chance. Think of this show as "Comedy Bang Bang" times fifty.


                
The past year Adult Swim has shown me nothing new or exciting, every show is either competing with Tim and Eric, or mimicking it. Although their style is genius it was gotten a little dry since the billion dollar movie. When i first saw the trailer for the Eric Andre show I was even more disappointed, ready for yet another tim and eric knock off. After watching the premier episode I felt as if I had never laughed before. Everything was unexpected, and completely over the top in a way that nobody has ever gotten close to. I never know what to expect, and the commercials for each episode have entirely no footage from the actual episode. The Eric Andre show refreshed the talk show vibe with original pranks, and a surprisingly deep layers of humor. One must watch each episode 3 or 4 times to really see everything they pack into it. What i'd really like to see is everything that doesn't air.


                
WTF BRO, I ORDERED AN EXTRA SUPREME, TWO DIET DOUBLE DEWS, WITH ANCHOVIES AND MY ORDER NEVER SHOWED UP. I DEMAND A REFUND AND EXTRA CREDIT FOR MORE OTHERWISE MY REVIEW WITH REMAIN UNCHANGED. DON'T EAT HERE.
PRETZELS IS THE SAMEDUE PROCESS AND THE COURT OF LAW AND ALL THAT LOOK AT MY SUIThaven't laughed this much since the first season of bob's burgersten lines, sch-men linesthis show is not for racists and/or conservativeseverything is well planned and a lot of people just don't get it. it has a constant charm of everything falling apart, yet it is meticulously crafted. Andre and Hannibal compliment each other well and one cannot predict what happens nextwhich is great.


                
I have never loved a TV show more than The Eric Andre Show. This show speaks to me so hard it's unreal.The main theme of the show is mental chaos. Eric is one crazy individual (like myself) who knows exactly how to grab people's souls, shake it around, and throw it back without hesitation. His actions are so subtle that he leaves his guests struck with all kinds of emotions. Hannibal, too, but he is a little more reserved about it.Before this show, I never really understood social norms (or at least how they were used in context). Growing up, I wasn't too much of a social kid, but only because I wasn't raised in a social environment. I was always interested in being social, however. Watching this show has made me realize something important. Social norms don't really apply to you if you have little to zero knowledge about them. For example, Eric goes out in public and makes a fool of himself. In reality, he's actually making YOU look like a fool. Eric doesn't give a crap how people view him, so, in his mind, he is not acting like a fool. In his mind, he is acting how Eric Andre would normally act, even if other people think he's totally lost it. He knows what to expect except everybody around him.The key message this show gives to the world is timeless: All of humanity is going to act how they want to act when they want to act and, overall, there is nothing you can do about it. You can't force people to act a certain way, especially if you care about that person/they care about you. Whatever is happening up top in THEIR head is out of YOUR control. Sally will always act like Sally and Joe-Bob will always act like Joe-Bob. A perfect example of this is at the very end of Season 1 Episode 10. Eric does a bit where he falls onto his knees on a busy sidewalk dressed as a homeless man, crying as he pretends to have lost all hope in himself as a person. The people around him BARELY react. A few people glance over at him, but that's it. Most people just walk past as if nothing is happening. Those people had no idea that he was faking it for a TV show, so those are AUTHENTIC REACTIONS. This shows a lot about the society we live in today. Even if you have hit rock bottom and are giving up hope completely, people don't give a damn, especially if they don't know you. What if that was a real-life situation? What if that "homeless man" really WAS completely giving up hope in himself and his last chance for relief was a stranger assisting him in some sort of way? The next option for a person like that would most likely be suicide. Do you know how good it could feel to supply happiness into a stranger in a random act of kindness? You'd never know unless you'd try.


                
One of the only funny shows still airing on television


                
This is the cream de la cream of American comedy, loud, entertaining, craziness. I love it and I highly recommend it. I mean I don't think most people will enjoy it, but if you like controversial and dark humour you should definitely give it a try.Every time is see it, I laugh.


                
Sqeeezue it up broh. This shows a full on yup yup yup yup. Clowns man, you get it. It's a big old sneeze.
