I'm not sure this is comedy. It presents itself as a talk show. The host, Eric Andre, seems to be trapped in the role. The show opens with Eric absolutely destroying the set. Within seconds, like in a bad dream the set magically reassembles itself and the show continues, the host, his defenses momentarily derailed declares, "I'm dying". There is something that appears to be comedy, but, all the while, the participants seem to be holding back a pent-up fear and generalized hostility, if not disorientation. The participants don't quite seem to be in control, and react to the hidden forces around them with horror. At one point, the show subjects Andre and his co-host to an insane game show, without warning, where Andre is drenched with scalding hot coffee after every question. We seem to be viewing some sort inescapable closed universe containing nothing but an endless slightly nightmarish talk show. It feels like a bad dream, half remembered. It feels like there's some unspeakable horror lurking just off-camera that the people on-stage can see, but, we can't, and they can only stay safe by pretending to ignore it.I like what the show is trying to do, even if it's more unsettling, then funny, much like "Tim and Eric's Awesome Show, Great Job", produced by the same production company. There's just something kind of compelling, here. More so than most of Adult Swim's live action shows. It'll be interesting to see where they go with this.


                
The Eric Andre show is a parody of every terrible art school party, every terrible noise show, and every stand-up act that was only laughable because of how bad it was. These flavors are combined to create a deconstruction of the talk/skit late-night show that occasionally ascends to brilliance.The sublime intro sequence begins slowly but rapidly advances in tempo as mr. andre destroys his set and clothes in an escalating fit of madness before, suddenly clothed again, sitting down exhausted. As a new curtain descends behind him and a fresh desk pushed in front of him the audience is left with the illusion that this act repeats week after week and the show is performed in the expanding refuse of previous sets.


                
