Eric's show is different and does a lot of out of the norm thing that end up giving the viewer a big laugh.In just 12 minutes you can expect at least 3 big big laughs. I normally watch them 5-6 at a time on the DVR when I'm in the mood. I love the destruction of the set and the shock value he does to his guests. The Maria Menounos episode was perfect " Pick a person" and when she finally picks a person, that person is immediately shot. Pure Genius! I love the band and Hannibal who is always funny. Everyone welcome James Van Der Beek, cut to a shot of the guest band leader vomiting, how could anyone not understand the genius of this show? I hope he keeps this show or gets a bigger one.


                
It is in the same tradition as Andy Kaufman and brilliant! often the funniest show on TV. his street stuff is without fear and wild and original.yet it is where (real) actors, actresses go to die. rare is one of the real guest able to match or keep up with the host, who is fearless and seem to love watching guest die. i hope guest get paid a lot to be on there. 
i hope the show returns for another season. 
 it looks like the show has gone through with added editing ? to make the street scenes shorter and more concise.
Nothing can prepare you for this show. It is unlike anything else on tv. It may at first seem crude and immature to some people, and i will admit it takes a certain type of person to enjoy this show. If you are easily grossed out or prefer a sort of sophisticated sense of humor, then this isnt the show for you. That being said i think this show is great. It will get you to laugh at stuff you never thought you would laugh at. Its essentially a prank show, in the fact that it frames itself as a legit late night talk show and gets unsuspecting celebrities to come on, then proceeds to devolve into usually some gross stuff happening and Eric breaking his desk. You'll get to see your favorite celebrities like you've never seen them before, which is wierded out and having no idea what is going on. It is always interesting to see celebrities out of their comfort zones and their unfiltered reactions to stuff as well. I read a youtube comment that once said "this show is like a fever dream", and that pretty much sums the eric andre show up. If you're looking for something weird and different, i recommend this show.


                
