The only way you will understand the plot is to read the Time Travel Book in the extras on the DVD.  I bet nobody guessed near the rubbish the plot actually is....
---------- THE TRUE PLOT OF DONNIE DARKO (spoiler) ----------If a Tangent Universe occurs, it will be highly unstable, sustaining itself for no longer than several weeks.  Artifacts provide the first sign that a Tangent Universe has occurred.  The Living Receiver is chosen to guide the Artifact into position for it's journey back to the Primary Universe.  The Manipulated Dead will manipulate the Living Receiver using the Fourth Dimensional Construct.We enter the Tangent Universe when the Airplane Engine (Artifact) first appears.Donnie (Living Receiver) has been chosen to guide the Airplane Engine back to the Primary Universe. We don't know why he is chosen.
Frank (Manipulative Dead) dies in this Tangent Universe so he is able to guide Donnie to get the Artifact in position.---------- THE TRUE PLOT OF DONNIE DARKO (spoiler) ----------
This Plot isn't intelligent. Creating a movie nobody would ever understand (unless its explained in a book) is not hard to do.  This film is the dullest, most over-rated rubbish I've watched!
Although I do not recommend this film, neither do I recommend reading this review without first seeing the movie.  Though I have not given away the ending, or most of the plot twists, this movie would be best viewed without any prior information. It's hard to pinpoint the chief problem with the film Donnie Darko, as there are many to deal with.  Richard Kelly, in his first feature film, seems to have collected enough scenes of adolescent rage, late-night stoner diatribes, self-righteous justifications and inoffensive, banal philosophy to inspire twenty teen-angst dramas; then mashed them into a single two hour package with a sci-fi twist.  The result is deeply distressing-- for all the wrong reasons.  The film attempts to lead the audience down convoluted paths without any sense of symbolism or meaning, to make them sympathize with one-dimensional characters, and above all hopes that they will ignore the underdeveloped plot, full of unreconciled loose ends, by hiding it under a veneer of CGI effects and neo-surrealism. The main character, Donnie Darko, is a young man, committed to therapy, misunderstood by his friends, and rendered hostile and disaffected by his suburban life.  We are meant to feel that he is more intelligent than his schoolmates, although sometimes that is a difficult assumption to make. For example, when one of his friends comes up with an absurd theory about the Smurfs, and Donnie counters with a theory of his own, his friend complains about Donnie acting "all smart."  Donnie's speech, however, is no smarter than that of his friend-- just angrier.  The only clear evidence of his intelligence is his principal's description of his standardized test scores as `intimidating;' but given the director's slant against simple categorization of human elements (as shown in the FEAR-LOVE sequence), this is a poor substitute for character development. Donnie takes prescribed drugs to combat mental problems, which are not addressed directly in this film.  In fact, the entire issue of the drugs is understated, and one of the first chances the director has to redeem the film is lost.  The ambiguity of Donnie's strange destiny, the possibility that all of this may be a product of his imagination, is pushed into the background, making the film 100 percent science fiction. This would not be a bad thing in itself, except that the "science" behind the "fiction" is very shaky.  The explanations of time travel are weak, at best sounding like detached, uninformed rambling.  We get the idea that the film's writer once read a book about time travel or a few chapters, and can't quite remember how it worked, but was sure that it was really interesting and wanted to work it into the film.  The scientific portion, as a result, depends more heavily on expensive computer animations than actual development of the theories involved (at one point, a teacher discussing time travel states that if he continues to speak on the subject, he'd be fired.  Apparently no further explanation is needed). Donnie's dealings with a visitor from the future lead him to commit several vicious actions.  The justification for these actions is a tricky business. He damages his school, but it's okay, because his school doesn't treat him like a person.  His punishment of a creepy self-esteem advocate (somewhat similar to Tom Cruise's character in Magnolia) results in the man's public humiliation.  But should the audience believe that Donnie is some sort of avenging angel, striking out against ignorance and debauchery?  He himself seems ignorant of the effects of these actions until after the fact. Aside from these flaws, the film is riddled with flat, uninteresting generalizations of humanity.  The story is set in 1988, just before the Bush/Dukakis election, and the director touches on this point during the film.  The focus, however, extends exactly this far: Donnie's gruff, blue collar father is voting for Bush, while his free-spirited, rebellious daughter plans to vote for Dukakis.  There is nothing even remotely resembling a political statement here; simply a statement of the obvious. The former are not necessary to make a good film, but the latter should be left out.  Likewise, Donnie's heartfelt speech about not being able to lump all human emotions into the bland categories of "fear and "love;" this doesn't ask the audience to make any great leaps of understanding. Everybody knows that there are more that two human emotions, and particular emphasis on this fact is worthless. Mr. Kelly gives homage to several symbols of 80's pop culture in his film: E.T., Stephen King, the Smurfs, Back to the Future.  At it's heart, this film feels like the director's homage to himself, a collection of his own experiences, interests, personal heroes and adversaries, affirmations and disenchantments, roughly stitched together by untrained hands.  Entire songs are played in music video format to the characters actions, seemingly because the director likes the songs.  Characters who have little to no bearing on the plot (including the archetypal bully, fat girl, and right-wing idiot teacher) are given unnecessary focus, because the director really wanted to pack them in somehow.  The awkward mess that is Donnie Darko leaves us wondering if Mr. Kelly has enough ideas left in his head to make another film, or if he has wasted all his creativity in one pointless, cluttered, meandering effort.My rating: 1/10.


                
SPOILERSThe people who are twisting themselves in knots trying to analyse the 'philosophy' of this movie belong in the same group as those who try to divine the meaning behind the Matrix films. Read some actual philosophy, for Christ's sake, or watch classic Art movies which engage with ideas in a coherant manner, instead of getting excited soley because a movie was made recently, marketed to your age group, and is associated with a hit single. The reality is that this is the best recent example of a pop-cultural product which is popular ONLY because it's pitched as arty and difficult to understand. There's nothing to understand. None of the sub-plots (the infomercial guy, the *beep* about Grahame Greene, or wormholes, or the other stuff about censorship) have anything to do with the central plot about Frank, Donnie and his girlfriend. They are included to create the illusion that this movie has a message, when there is really nothing there. All of the anti-censorship arguments have been made far more effectively before, in movies dedicated to that theme; none of the other stuff links together or goes anywhere. The plot twists in the sub-plots are all tediously obvious, as are the character's attitudes to them (like Donnie immediately seeing that Jim Cunningham is the antichrist - and look, he's found to be a pederast! Or the whole thing about Drew Barrymore's character being a saint crushed by a repressive system, or the street thug dudes, who walk into the film, gurn a bit, threaten Don with a knife, then walk out again until they're needed later). The plot twists in the main plot all come totally out of the blue by using the supernatural cop-out clause as permission for the story to go in any direction it likes. When movies like Godsend do that, everyone rightly points out how stupid it is. But then, Godsend isn't regarded as Art.
Idiots. The worst part is the way this film wastes it's one original idea - the concept of a disturbed teenager who can see a 6' apocalyptic bunny rabbit. Wouldn't it have been great if Frank had been kept mysterious, or turned out to be some kind of demon with a direct, properly explained role in the plot? No, he takes his bunny head off halfway through, and is shown to be merely a guy in a suit who drives a car over someone at a key moment.
You need to watch more movies, people.
"Donnie Darko" is the end result of 47 Weekly World News headlines strewn together in random order.  Over one hour and 45 minutes, it rams together time travel, a 6-foot imaginary rabbit, a Tony Robbins-esque motivational speaker with a secret (Patrick Swayze?!?), hypnotism, an elementary school dance troupe and a stray jet engine.What does it all mean?  Not much.  Ham-fisted, nail-on-the-head symbolism practically smashes you in the face.  A creepy fat girl dressed as an angel. A statue with a dog's head and a human body.  An old woman nicknamed "Grandma Death" who keeps checking her mailbox.  An eye wound.  The creepy fat girl's earmuffs.  Heck, one of the ending shots is an M.C. Escher drawing.  The filmmakers would also like you to marvel at their camera techniques. Look, it's tilted!  Now it's going fast.  Now, slow.  Wait, now it's turning upside down!  Aren't we creative?And be sure to spot the zillion story lines, characters and scenes ripped from other (read: better) films.  The courageous English teacher ("Dead Poets Society").  The watery tentacles ("The Abyss").  An imaginary rabbit ("Harvey").  The lead character, wearing a gray, hooded sweatshirt, and his Halloween-costumed friends riding bikes ("E.T.").  Meditation on the sex lives of cartoon characters ("Mallrats").So basically, you're left with a sullen Jake Gyllenhaal moping his way through someone's bad LSD-trip.  By the end, you're supposed to have some great understanding of your place in the universe.  But you're more likely to have a great understanding of why overwrought student films are a dime a dozen.


                
I was instantly put off by the tired and worn clichés - the neurotic teacher, the nasty school bully, the fat Chinese chick who says "Shut up!", the sleazy mr. motivator, the "Mr & Mrs Average" parents, the eccentric old lady - all done to death by countless teenage flicks. And then the time travel and the convoluted, confused plot - laughable that the director is trying to (mis)use Stephen Hawking's "Brief History of Time" to lend some scientific credibility to this sorry concoction. It feels as if the film can't decide if it has anything to say but insists on plodding on regardless - with a vengeance... Redeeming quality for me was perhaps the soundtrack and some of the special effects. I wish it hadn't been so widely hyped - I would have spared myself the time.I too am surprised at the many positive reviews but the most telling was one along the lines of "I don't usually like deep movies but this one is different" - made me laugh!


                
I have no doubt in my mind that the director of this film is an idiot.Absolute garbage: the whole film. Drew Barrymore's performance was nothing short of the worst thing I'd seen. I finished watching the film with horror. It was that awful.Let me be frank, I think it's totally the director's fault. The film's premise is interesting and the plot twists had the potential to be fun, but the entire endeavor was marred by an inherent lack of intelligence.The director, I have no doubt, saw Donnie Darko as a superheroic, Christ-like figure who was doomed to sacrifice himself for the good of humanity. The film attempts to use magical realism to make its point. Your thinking: Never Ending Story, Star Wars, Willow... If only. I didn't like those films much either, but at least they weren't trying as hard as Donnie Darko to be internally consistent. Donnie Darko is very American, very Christian, and entirely too self-righteous in its portrayal of "truth". What's worse, it's plot has holes large enough to pass elephants through, so the filmmakers don't even have a right to act that way. In a nutshell, the plot has NO LOGICAL CONSISTENCY. The characters are undeveloped and the acting is reminiscent of a high school play. Not to mention the whole premise of the movie centers around an acceptance of "time travel" that is entirely pedestrian. Yes, modern physics speaks about time travel. No, it looks NOTHING LIKE what is presented in Donnie Darko. I wouldn't care, but they are attempting to actually present it like they are saying something along those lines. Like a B-Movie Science Fiction Flick from the 50s, the movie throws scientific and deductive ideas around without actually having researched them or patiently thinking about the consequences. I don't in principle mind when people get things wrong, but this movie comes across as a self-righteous attempt to be right. When you're trying to be right and the stuff you include can immediately be identified as eyerollingly incorrect, that's when I begin to get stomach aches. Wolfgang Pauli summed up their premise well, "That's not right. That's not even wrong." Instead the filmmaker has spent research on figuring out what the smurfs were all about. Excuse me for rolling my eyes.The director could have gone with struggling with Darko's mental instability. No, instead he tries to paint a hero in a world that's full of idiots who can't save themselves.It's a painful movie to watch. On more than one occasion I simply wanted to throttle everyone involved in the production. If you want to be annoyed, then watch this movie.


                
I went into this flick because a couple different reviews and reviewers pointed me in that direction. I'm not a critic, I don't waste a lot of time disecting the bad, I prefer to spend time praising the good.So I'll be brief.This movie will probably appeal to the same segment who thought Blair Witch was original and good. And like Blair Witch this movie is neither. If you've opened a sci-fi book in the last fifty years, the concepts touched on are less than revolutionary, and even the mixing of disparite genres handled far better elsewhere, one movie that comes to mind is SIGNS. Or even the films of David Fincher, this idea of pieces coming together, of everything having meaning is a capable idea, in the hands of acapable script and director.
An idea that kept running through my head, triggered by certain scenes in the film, is how derivitive DONNIE DARKO is of better movies. Sometimes an ambiguous story isn't the mark of a brilliant director, and a witty script, sometimes it's just uneven filmmaking. It's just an inability to put on the stage, the ideas on the page. Many reviewers have said, well get the DVD, because the notes from the book really explain it, and I have to chuckle softly, because I realize that perhaps a movie that requires crib notes... isn't really that cohesive of a movie.People are quick to slam hollywood movies, and praise indie movies, often simply because they are labeled "indie" movie.Some hollywood movies are bad, some are brillant. Some Indie movies are brilliant, and some are... empty. DD is an empty movie. People argue about Tangent Universes, and Premonitional Dreams, and ultimately if a movie lacks heart, if you don't care about the characters, who cares what happens to them? Whether their world ends? And ultimately that's the failing of Donnie Darko, Drew Barrymore mentions apathy, and that descibes the failings of this flick as well as any.You don't learn to care for the characters, so why worry about their world coming to the end? While the director shows capabiity moving the camera, the glaring/cynical looks of the lead [his distuberd/homicidal look maybe?] after the fourth or fifth glare left me hoping 10 or 12 jets fell on his head.Condemn Hollywood movies if you choose, but like most prejudice, you condemn the good with the bad, because Hollywood at its best, its LAWRENCE OF ARABIAs, its LION IN WINTERS, its UNTOUCHABLES, its BRAVEHEARTS gives us works that speak to the heart, and I will take that any day over this new self-indulgent indie cinema that speaks only to the hubris[That said there are directors doing great things in the Indie Field, THE SWEET HEREAFTER popping immediately to mind, a movie that has all the heartrending emotional energy and interest, that this film lacks].Donnie Darko like Blair Witch is an exercise, a preamble to a film, that would make a decent short flick on the Indie Film circuit, but blown up to feature length, the cracks shown... and the holes become... apparent.** out of ****.


                
this is one of the most overrated films i've ever seen in my life and that is not hyperbole. when i express this opinion it is often met with responses like, "man, you just didn't get it" or "what are you talking about? this is maybe the best movie ever made." trying to show restraint i switch topics most of the time, but seeing as IMDb has been rated #94 on the list of greatest films ever made i just felt like i needed to say something.this movie is awful. it is pretentious, convoluted, and sophomoric. it's art film for people who don't like art film but like to think they do. it clunks along slowly in a world of frivolous angst; for heaven's sake, donnie is being led on by a big apocalyptic stuffed animal... how is that not laughable? each performance is overdone, the special effects are offensively bad, the pacing is miserable, the cinematography overly showy, and worst of all the ending is... i am not even going to touch that with a forty foot pole for the sake of you "darko" obsessives who are probably foaming at the mouth after reading this much.simply put, "donnie darko" (the film or the character) is unbearably self-important.if this is number #94, ron howard's "willow" should be #78, lucas's "howard the duck" should be #64, costner's "the postman" #25, and "shrek 2" the greatest film of all-time.


                
This movie is painful to watch, the directing is bad, the cinematography is bad, the plot is full of holes. Some people suggest that you need to read a book to understand it, some can even write an essay to explain the theory behind, however the movie itself is so lame that it does not show you any of that unless you deliberately do so. Don't get me wrong, I like movies of similar genre like "Mulholland Drive", but Richard Kelly is light-year away from David Lynch in terms of talent, vision and capability in making a thought-provoking movie. Well, there is a bunch of bad movies out there but they get what they deserve: bad rating. However, this movie is ridiculously overrated and it is absolutely nonsense that it makes the top 500 of Moviemeter's table.


                
I rented this movie on the strength of the ratings and glowing reviews at this site. "Brilliant", they said. "Dark and beautiful", they wrote. 8.4 stars. Well, all I can say is, these people must have been on some serious drugs when saw this totally inane movie. The cinematography has the look of a student film. The plot (and I use the term for lack of a better word) is disjointed and meandering, not really sure where it wants to go, and that leaves the viewer not really caring. The ending, I suppose, is meant to be a twist, but ends up making little sense and falling flat. Donnie Darko, by the way, is actually his real name (ie, the Darko family), not an intriguing nickname. I give this movie 1 black hole.


                
The film is about one basic premise: if you could go back in time you would try to go back and prevent bad things from happening. There is nothing more to it, and you could throw most of the film out and just come out and say it, it would take you less than one minute.In this story, somehow, there is time travel. But it is not like in a sci fi movie with futuristic machines or alien visitors and technology, but rather some extremely vague, clouded and ill defined reference to wormholes and speed of light travel, none of which anyone of the characters either witnesses or possesses.Sadly, the main premise of time travel is obscured behind the main character's schizophrenia, mental instability, medications, sleep walking and daylight hallucinations. We go through the whole film imagining that the character is mad, that everything is in his head.There is no twist, eg like Shutter Island, there is nothing that binds it all together. It is all hints and inferences, but there is no commitment to anything. The viewer can imagine what they like, fill in the gaps, give their own explanation. That is how vague and incomplete and non committal this movie is.I am not sure I have all the gaps filled in, but it does not matter because an 8 year old can make a film with lots of gaps and thousands of possible explanations. I had thought that the continuous lack of clarity would eventually lead to some super intelligent and twisted revelation worth waiting for, but sadly, no.Do not bother watching it, it's trash.
well, IMDb Rating:8.4. Seriously?OMG!I couldn't hate myself for watching this movie at first. Its a sheer waste of my time and intelligence. So quickly i sum up up my review before wasting more time on this piece of crap ------------------------------Positives: None (Not even if I see the movie with a magnifying glass to notice one) ----------------------------- Negatives: The entire movie. I don't understand why this movie was even madePoor use special effects in showing the rabbitNo script and story : I beg people to let me know what this movie was all about? I believe even the writer is clueless of what he wanted to portrayTerrible acting---------------------------- Final Verdict:This Plot isn't intelligent. Creating a movie nobody would ever understand (unless its explained in a book) is not hard to do. This film is the dullest, most over-rated rubbish I've watched!


                
This movie made absolutely no sense to me (and I'm not a stupid person...IQ in the 140's) until just before it ended...meaning I just sat there for about 90 minutes wondering what I was watching. I get the time travel bit, but I still don't see any point in the two hours of rambling and nonsense. There was a great idea here, but the movie makers (not sure which one to blame) failed miserably in executing on the idea...it's like they assumed everyone else was on an acid trip too. I wrote that jokingly, but now that I think of it, that could very well be the reason!I'd like to be able to say something positive here, but nothing comes to mind...just two hours of me thinking "Blah, blah, blah...oh, there's Patrick Swayze, weird...blah, blah, blah...oh, I remember that song...blah, blah, blah." and 90 minutes into it, "Oh, so that's what was going on...better late than never I guess." Seeing that this movie had a rating over 8 stars made me want to give it a chance, but in the end, I just kept wondering if the world has gone mad. To those who call this a masterpiece, remember...just say no to drugs.


                
Time and again I read the comments of other people on IMDb on films I have found to be truly awful - just to see what other people think of them - only to find the majority of them describing the film in question as wonderful, brilliant, awe-inspiring etc. Again, the comments I have found on "Donnie Darko" are no exception to this general rule.My wife and I have only just watched "Donnie Darko" on DVD and were furious in the extreme at having wasted over two hours of our time on this annoying and frustrating rubbish that "cleverly" tried to be so-called "art". We absolutely abhor films that start off from a certain premise, and then at the end the viewer is confronted with the nasty trick of, "Ho, ho, this just didn't happen this way at all!".So that, in "Donnie Darko", the sleep-walking character of Donnie Darko - played by the epitome of the somnambulist actor of all time in all his varied film roles, Jake Gyllenhaal - is shown to have escaped the falling jet engine on his bedroom (occurring at the beginning of the film) because the "bunny rabbit" by the name of "Frank" had mysteriously got him out of the house, only for the film to end with the very fact of the jet engine killing D. D. in his bedroom.Certainly, this kind of "twist" between a film's starting "reality" and concluding "unreality" has been seen many times before, most notably in the Bruce Willis masterpiece, "The Sixth Sense". There, though, it works absolutely brilliantly, so much so that every time I watch the film it leaves me very disturbed and upset.But not this time. We were both angry with ourselves for watching this piece of utter pretentious nonsense, and straightaway the DVD ended up in our rubbish bin where it truly belonged.
Oh my GOD! If I have to keep listening to people saying this movie is good in any way I will scream. It is pretentious crap. C-R-A-P. The plot makes no sense! In fact there is virtually no plot at all. Even the people who like the movie have said that they have watched it numerous times and still don't fully understand it. It is not a movie to be thought about and pondered as some would lead you to believe. Just trying to think about it is guaranteed to short circuit your brain because there is no logic to this movie. It tries to be witty and cool and dark and funny, but in reality it is just dumb and half baked. The acting is very poor, Jake is at his worst here. The director must have told him to make the same face and deliver his lines in the same monotone way for the whole film. The cinematography is also poor, it looks like a bad student film; a first attempt at doing something stylized. I could have made the same movie with my hand held. I can't understand why all these teens like it. I am 16, but I hate this movie. The only reason that so many people like it must be because the majority of people are dumb and can't tell if a movie is good or not. Also a lot of kids who like it are trying to be non-conformist and emo. They think if the adults don't like this movie it is because "the man" is trying to keep it down and rebel by liking it. I went to see it thinking that I would like it, and I really tried to like it but it is just bad. It is a pretension magnet for people who think they know good film. Please do not see this movie, especially if you are not between the ages of 14-22.


                
I don't get it, I watched this one night and I just didn't get it. It made no sense whatsoever. A Bunch of people wanted me to see this one so I figured eh, what's the worst that could happen? I'll waste a couple of hours, at most. Well I was wrong, not only was it so confusing that.... that, I don't even know what, it was just really confusing, and the fact that I kept trying to figure out what was what made this long movie so long. Now it's been almost two years since I saw it, I tried watching it again, and I still don't get it, not that I'm losing any sleep over it, only 392 hours. So I really see no point in wasting any more time with it.That's all.
A really terrible film. It has a lot of worshipers, but the premise is as old as the hills. It never makes much sense, and in the end, you have to ask why someone would make a horror film that was not only scare-less but clueless as well. And the bunny? I know this film has its fans, as a friend of mine is one of them, but I found nothing redeeming about this film. Jake does a fine acting job, but the script is so awful even he couldn't save it. One wonders how it ever got funding. Perhaps being based on "Incident at Owl Creek" had something to do with it, but it really doesn't pull it off. I felt quite ripped off at the end. Did I mention the bunny?


                
Its a shame this movie didn't get a proper cinema release, if it had it wouldn't appear in the Top 250!The only way to truly understand the plot is to read the "Time Travel" book bundled in the DVDs Special Features!! (how poor is that!) This easily clears everything up and reveals the plot.  Is that Clever?  Not really because anyone can write a story that nobody would understand unless having it explained to them.Dismal, Dull, Darko.  1/10


                
Let me say up front...do NOT waste your time or money seeing this film. It was extremely disappointing and very non-interesting. Donnie Darko is a teenager who is struggling with mental problems. He is heavily medicated, however his mental illness is getting the best of him. So, he begins performing acts of violence and vandalism.The main character, Donnie, is then surrounded by a subplot based on time travel. The subplot makes almost no sense and totally confuses the movie. The movie ends up be very odd, extremely boring and generally incohesive. I suspect the ending of the movie is supposed to explain the other boring 2 hours, but to me it just made the film even more painful to bear. Could it be possible that Donnie Psycho can actually travel back in time and alter the past? Give me a break! And to the film makers...how about less cheesy special effects and better quality sound editing.4/10 at best. Donnie Darko was a total disappointment at almost all levels. I suspect its makers think they were being clever with this movie. If so, they are too clever for their own good, and for the good of anyone who hoped this movie had more to offer.


                
It's too bad the IMDB doesn't award votes of zero for a film. Donnie Darko would be a candidate for the goose egg.I've sat through many a bad film -- Gummo comes to mind -- or challenging films from the Goddard canon. But Donnie Darko was so awful that I nearly shut it off 30 minutes in, and I only stuck around because there was *one* funny scene that referenced the Smurfs. I'm now regretting that decision.The plot, if you can call it that, is like Harvey meets Amelie on a dimly-lit back street. Set in 1988, Donnie Darko is about a high-school kid who's being haunted by visions of an ugly bunny rabbit who visits him at weird hours of the night. The rabbit, who really looks like a guy in a bad Easter costume, saves Donnie's life one day from being crushed to death by a wayward jet engine that falls out of the sky. The bunny rabbit then convinces Donnie that the world's going to end in less than a month, which means Mr. Darko has to go out and vandalize his school or the homes of no-gooders all in the name of ... well, I'm not entire sure.Nothing makes sense in Donnie Darko. There's all sorts of allegories to the 1988 U.S. election that don't pay off. The ending is muddled and, by that time, you'll have stopped caring why nothing makes sense. Then there's these bizarre extended musical sequences set to horrible '80s music that pop up for no apparent reason other than to possibly pad the running time.But you really don't want to get me started on the dialogue and the acting. Drew Barrymore is *horrible* as an English teacher, and seems to be reading her lines off a TelePrompter. Some of the high school bullies look spaced out on drugs, and *aren't* threatening or menacing at all. And I have absolutely zero idea what Gretchen, the token romantic interest, sees in our (anti)-hero. Note to screenwriter: "He's weird" doesn't cut it.Then there's the god-awful CGI, which liberally borrows special effects last seen in *The Abyss*.There's only one good decent thing I can say about this movie, aside from the aforementioned Smurf scene: the kid who plays Donnie actually does a good job. He almost makes the whole thing watchable -- until the utterly confusing ending cancels it out. Sometimes, aping David Lynch is *not* a good thing.I don't get how so many people have been duped by this waste of time. Personally, I want my $5 in rental fees back. Zero out of 10.


                
After hearing such great things from everybody about this film, I can honestly say this is a film that I believe to have no redeeming qualities to it. I watched it numerous occasions and understood it, but it simply is horrible. I cannot fathom how so many people can think this film is a cult classic already. The acting is horrible, the story is weak and although it tries to be artistic, it does not accomplish it's goal. It is a pretentious film that has no merit. I always look for something good in a movie, but I could not find one good thing about this. It tries too hard and fails at everything.Please don't rent this, it will be a waste of your time and money.
I watched this movie yesterday evening with my girlfriend. My girlfriend felt asleep after 15 minutes. I thought just to give it a chance, 'cause I read so much good critics here. So I waited and waited, time seemed to stretch like chewing gum and nothing really cool happened. I liked none of the characters. The best performance in my opinion was Donnie Darko himself and even that was not a good one.I've read here to watch the movie twice or more to fully understand it, but I'm not sure if I want to. I've watched 'Memento' and that's a movie you have to watch twice, too, but in fact this film was so cool that I WANTED to watch it twice. This movie is in my eyes a waste of time. Only worth 1 Star out 10.


                
This movie came highly recommended to me and now I'm questioning their judgement of movies.  Maybe I have spoiled myself by watching great films such as Waking Life, Barton Fink, O Brother Where Art Thou, The Legend of 1900, Amelie, Illuminata, The Red Violin, etc.  Those movies all had the three important aspects going for them:  a good story, a good ending, and a good purpose.Donnie Darko comes out at you with a character that is mentally disturbed. For those of you not familiar with characters that are a little strange, Donnie Darko's character might seem like a breakthrough to you.  You people have been watching too many "Oscar caliber films"!  Donnie Darko is not a good story.  It is a bunch of random events that leave little character building for anybody but Donnie and oddly enough, the bunny.  If you think about it, you could have come up with a bunch of random events involving a mentally disturbed character and come up with a movie similar to Donnie Darko in about a week, tops.  Stop and think about the different emotions that any character besides Donnie's showed if you have seen this film.  If you haven't seen the film, just watch for any character change at all, this will probably entertain you through the boring parts, I guess I should just say the movie.Donnie Darko has a horrible ending.  Think about the ending for a second.  I don't think Donnie does anything in the ending himself.  Also, the ending should repeat over and over again with different endings given the story line we are given.  Just think about it for a second.  People who haven't seen it, get ready for a pretty bad ending.   Donnie Darko has no purpose. Well, I guess maybe that's a lie, it does have a purpose.  I've never been a big fan of movies that are out just to be weird and get people names in the business.  Seriously, what else could have been the purpose?  The whole moving point behind the movie is based on a premise that cannot exist.  I won't say anything more because I don't want to spoil the film for people. Even though the film is bad, Donnie's actor turns in a wonderful job and the other characters do their best to the script's ability.  Check this film out, but your not going to like it.


                
To read some of the more lengthy reviews of this instantly forgettable movie, one would think "Donnie Darko" is the greatest movie never seen. Believe me, it ain't. Far from it. This DVD probably spends most of its life on the shelf at your local video store, removed sporadically for viewing by some soon-to-be-disappointed film nut, checking it out for to discover what all the hoopla isn't about. I'm not so sure the DVD always gets returned in its original condition, after all, when one expects too much and gets squat for their returns--things get busted.The blame for this dismal failure falls on writer-director, Richard Kelly, whose flawed "deus ex machina" ending completely undermines some mildly interesting stuff (time-travel, teen/parent relations, social satire) that he had going on before tanking it. Kelly's ill-conceived wrap-up renders "Donnie Darko" as nothing more than an insipid cross between "Sliding Doors" (w/Gwyneth Paltrow) and "Heathers" (w/Winona Ryder, et al.); a teen angst flick hinging upon the destiny of its protagonist. But, unlike these other two flicks, "Donnie Darko" fails dismally because in the end--because of its ending, leaving one feeling completely cheated, if not, in my case, disgusted.The fault is Kelly's alone. His principals share no blame.The story, briefly: Jake Gyllenhaal plays Donnie Darko, a morose, high school "weirdo." Drugs prescribed by the shrink his loving parents send him to cause him to hallucinate Frank, an alien-looking space-bunny who orders him to commit violent acts and predicts the imminent end of the world.Frank's prediction is rendered--early in the movie--on the same day a jet engine plunges into the Darko's residence, entering through the roof above Donnie's bedroom and boring a hole right on down to the first floor. When that occurs, we are misled to believe that Donnie was not in his bedroom at the time of the accident. (He is found sleeping on the fairway at a local golf course by two neighborhood men.) I mention this because this intentional deception by Kelly will either tick you off big time (as it did me) or lead you to make a self-appeasing justification allowing for such a gimmick.In either case, the jet engine accident, as framed by the aforementioned dubious ending, clearly divides this picture into two distinct parts: the part that did not happen, and the part that did happen. Unfortunately, the part that did NOT happen makes for 90% of the movie. Kelly undermines his own efforts with his choice of ending, obliterating one's concern for all that did NOT transpire. By his own devise, he turns the movie into a "what if" flick, a la "Sliding Doors." Ironically, the thought "what if" comes to mind when thinking about this movie, as in, "What if Kelly cut out the wrap-up ending and left us hanging?" At least then I'd have something to think about. As is, because Kelly chose to divide the movie into unequal parts, tossing 90% of it into the dumpster at movie's end, there's not much left to discuss. Kelly clearly shows that the jet engine did, indeed, kill Donnie Darko, and but so all that transpired after that event is, like the film, instantly forgettable.
Congratulations, world. As if you weren't already flooded with muddy aimless trash, DONNIE DARKO arrives to lower the final fistful of pretentious crud. A big thumb up the rear end of anyone who pretends to think this film is anything but a pandering 1st-year art student's sci-fi/DAWSON'S CREEK homage. One user comment said you have to "see it 3 times to really get it". I'd rather watch my mother get chewed to a pulp by rats than sit through this pathetic waste again. This is a real treat for fans of Drew Barrymore, mullet jokes or the Olsen Twins films. If you seriously think the "twist" ending makes sense, I insist that you spend the rest of the night sucking bullets from a shotgun. A blind deaf caveman with cerebral palsy could make a better movie with his foot. If you disagree, write me. I will drive to your house, kick a hole in your head and listen to all the air squeal out.


                
