Above all, this film has a kind of flow to it like nothing I've ever experienced in any other film before. The magic sets in from the very first moment, when we see Donnie waking up (and the song 'The Demon Moon' starts), and you just go with that flow and let yourself be drawn into that world. The story unfolds like a dream and the ambiguity (at least in the theatrical cut) as well as the fantastic songs help create an absolutely unique and strangely compelling atmosphere.Fantastic script and fantastic performances: this film has a richness in its characters that amazes me every time I watch it. Forget the director's cut - here for once the theatrical version is the masterpiece. Probably the best social commentary on American society I've ever seen but beautifully woven into an ambiguous, slightly surreal fantasy tale with a haunting soundtrack.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
I first saw this on cable tv. Thumbing through the channels I stopped just as Donnie Darko was beginning. I thought the title was weird, and readied my thumb on the remote channel selector...pointed it at the TV...and it stayed there for the rest of the movie! I couldn't stop watching! I've never seen a movie like this. The movie has a beautiful aspect (especially the end). And there are a few chuckles as well. Contrary to the more critical commentary, there is depth and complexity to the story that kind of requires you to see it more than once. I'm no genius, but what I gathered the basis of Donnie Darko to be is about our part in the deliberate DESIGN of our destiny, and I catch more each time I watch it. Regardless of anything, sincere thought and expression went in to the making of Donnie Darko. Mixed with skill and technical ability = Art.A WORK OF ART!  In the top 100 movies of all time in my opinion.


                
The fact that this is the Directors first film is amazing to me. The scenes dripped with style, yet that style never seemed distracting. None of it was self congratulatory or gluttonous. The visuals were supported by a truly emotional score and its hard to find fault in the 80's pop tunes that found their way into some of the more impressive scenes.The story is very much thought provoking. Its the type that leaves you pondering the possibilities voiced by the characters. There is nothing condescending about this film. Answers arent simply handed out, rather the viewer is left to draw many conclusions instead. The acting is also top notch. If i hadnt known beforehand that Patrick Swayze was in this film I would have been shocked. His character is amusing and interesting all at the same time. A great cameo for him. Drew Barrymore is forgetable, though that in no way detracts from the film. Of course the star is Jake Gyllenhaal. There is nothing that can be said to properly praise his performance. The rest of the cast chosen fit their roles perfectly. All of these things combine to create a stunning film. One can only hope that filmgoers will give this little gem a shot and support a true wonder. This is the only film I have awarded a 10/10 on the IMDB.


                
Donnie Darko was a great and thought provoking movie. Most people will probably not understand the movie the first time they watch it, because they don't know what to watch for, but the 2nd time you watch the movie most will consider it a great and profound movie. Another way to understand Donnie Darko is to have someone that has already seen the movie to watch it with you and tell you which parts of the movie to remember towards the end of the movie. This is not a movie to watch if one does not like to think during movies. Donnie Darko is also not a movie for the lazy movie watcher to watch. I normally like the easy brained movies that require no thought-process but this is one thought provoking movie that I give a 10 out of 10.


                
Donnie Darko is one of those films that you can't easily forget; i saw it last week and i'm still thinking in the story and truly is one of the best films that i have seen in this year. I know that this film was release in 2001 and that i saw it 6 years later but here in Mexico it wasn't release in the theaters and like in the rest of the world this film gain popularity in the DVD format and right now is a true cult film.It's hard to write a resume of the plot but i must say that is film is just unique because is not just a sci-fi story, is also a critic to the establish society and a view to the teenage life.Let's forget for a moment the time travel part and focus into the points of view of Donnie Darko. He is very clever, shy and very different from the rest of his school partners. Whe he start having this strange views of the rabbit (i really love those scenes) he start doing things that he always want to do but (like most of the persons) he was afraid. I mean, he wants to "change things" and in resume, he was against the establish society. Like in the school when he was against the idea of his teacher that in life there were just two things: love and fear, Donnie says that life wasn't that easy and simple but the teacher was afraid to go out the "normal" points of view of the school.So i really love a lot of things like that one in the entire film apart from the time travel story which also, i think is great. Like the talk between Donnie and the "f****** Antichrist", is really good and an example of the people which Donnie was against.About the sci-fi story: the time travel story is not easy to forget and is not easy to resume.I have only watch his film one time and other time very quickly so maybe i'm not correct but that's the magic of this film, is a very interesting story that makes you think.SPOILER ALERT!!!! (just for the people who already watch the film) For me is was like everything really happened, no matter if Donnie could travel back in time. I mean when Donnie dies, everybody wakes up from like a dream but they are thinking in what they lived with Donnie: Frank touches his eye and the "Antichrist" is crying for example. And also in the final scene there is a recognition between Gretchen (Donnie's girl) and Donnie's mother, so is like a story that ends on October 28 when the plain travel back on time to October 2 and in the case of the film we see that Donnie stays in his bed. Other thing is the character of Roberta Sparrow (Grandma Death) that is always checking the mail box because i think she knows that in some part of the story she will receive a letter that i think before she have already seen.Well is a very interesting story that you can comment with your friends and that makes you see this film more than 1 time.SPOILER ENDS!!!!!About the cast: is just great with a young Jake Gyllenhaall making his best performance (along with his character in "Zodiac") and with Drew Barrymore in a little role, i think she read the script and love it and said like "i give you the money but you give a role". And the rest of the cast is excellent.The visual part of the film is nothing but a piece of art and the music is more than excellent, with the beautiful "Mad World" and also with "Love will tear us apart" by Joy Division.As a conclusion: Donnie Darko is just a work of art and now is a must see; and for me is one of my favourites films of this decade. 10 out of 10DVD: is just great because that is the unique format that this film was release in Mexico. I have the "regular" edition with only 1 disc but is great with a lot of bonus material so i really like it.
"The dreams which I'm dying are the best I've ever had..." Most of the authorities reviewed Donnie Darko as a psychological thriller. Though, the look of this angle straitens the true understanding of this epic movie. Donnie Darko is a sci-fi classic and is mainly a superhero movie. "If only I could go back in time and take all those hours of pain and darkness; and replace them with something better..." was Gretchen's wish. Donald died in his dream to prevent Gretchen getting killed in the real life. Although he believes that the greatest invention ever to benefit mankind is antiseptics(!), Donald had a vision. He gave whatever Gretchen wanted from life; and when she got all of her desired, the destiny was rewritten putting effect the fact that she has actually never met with Donald. Gretchen had been killed accidentally by Frank. In order to make Donald save Gretchen's life; a restless supernatural spirit,that wore Frank's Halloween night dress, sacrificed Donald and saved Frank's life.Donnie Darko brought out who rule the destiny of the world. The answer is neither God or humankind. It is angels(and/or daemons) that forms the fate and represents the balance of the nature. It is also clarified that only angels(and/or daemons) can travel in time.Jake Gyllenhaal performed Donald(Donnie Darko) and totally took on the tough responsibility of playing a schizophrenic superhero. Maggie Gyllenhaal, his sister both in the movie and in the real life, looked as the cutest of all her performances ever. Jena Malone was surely the right choice to perform as Gretchen, although she didn't give any extra effort to catch viewers' attention. Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze couldn't hold onto the blood-freezing atmosphere of the film. Best of all, Richard Kelly has done a great work of cinema. His style of holding the tension at the highest, and hiding clues of the storyboard all over the script were extra-ordinary. Cinematography was so brilliant and unique. Donnie Darko totally deserves to be one of the best sci-fi movies of all time for every aspect.Editing and theatrical cut was also a good job. There were deleted scenes that I got the chance to view from the DVD, just good to know. The film has been edited in a smooth and clever style. I got people all the time telling that Donnie Darko is a schizophrenic film, which is not fair. That would straiten the wide implications we can get. Those implications may include not just scientific thesis of quantum mechanics but also very important social criticisms. It is a mad world.


                
Spoiler First off, I'd like to say, that I just saw this movie 8 days ago. I honestly can't remember if I heard about it before or not.I now almost wish I had never seen this movie...I can't stop thinking about it. I'm 28, been working for 9 years in the same company & love to see movies. I love music, movies & basically the whole "media". I watch on average 5+ movies a week. New rentals or old ones, whatever. I suck it all up.Since I put this in, I've been constantly haunted by it (literally). I go to bed thinking of it, wake up thinking of it. I've since then watched it 3 more times, in an effort to get it outta me system, to no avail. I can't shake this movie. It has struck so hard a chord with me, that I feel like I've been swallowed whole by it.I remember putting it in & the first opening scene that 1.5 mins, I knew I'd love the movie & nothing had happened yet. I found myself transfixed by it.I lost all sense of time & by the time I was finished, it was 4am & I had to get up at 7am for work. I also didn't care when I realized what I had done.I found myself absorbed by the movie, & I didn't know it, till it was too late. When I did realize how much I was really liking it, I was a lost cause.I think the reason I'm so attracted (obsessively with no control) is that I can 100% relate to it. I didn't have a therapist & wasn't a schizo, but everything else, from just not feeling attuned to the world. To this day, I've not thought of myself as a normal person. I think differently, react differently & have the ultra rare curiosity of accepting possibilities of things unknown, even though our pathetic tiny use of our brains, doesn't allow one to understand this, or what exactly it may be, but I know there's more to life than ... this.I feel that was how Donnie was. He was aware of things & "intimidating" by his intellect. He knew on some level, there was something... there. When he finally realizes it, with the help of the "manipulators", he slowly comes to understand it.I found that I could understand Donnie & even see myself in his place. I remember the 80's, the smurfs, the music & the guru's. Its familiar enough that I can remember details of it.Donnie is definitely a troubled kid & though I don't consider me teens that way, I did feel outside, even though I got along with everyone (I wore the man suit, as a mask of who I really was). I've read tons of the comments on what the movie was interpreted as & agree with some of it.I thought, I'd instead post how this movie has affected me & made me completely think of things differently. I don't view the world the same way. I question the choices I've done in life & the life I'm living atm. I find that I'm contemplating things that I want to change & change right now.The last bit of the movie, I find myself with tears down me face, almost to the point of uncontrollably weeping. I find that I can actually feel what the characters are feeling. I'll admit, that I like the darker side of life & this movie is indeed hauntingly dark. If Donnie was played by a blonde guy, the sound wasn't as haunting & the music wasn't retro (making you remember how things were retro) it'd not have worked for me at all. I'm dark & mysterious like Donnie is. I'd swear on many aspects, he is me twin.If I even think about the movie, hum the tune in me head, I'm instantly gripped in me gut with the feeling of the movie. I can't honestly put it into words. I've never felt it before. Its sadness, grief, empathy & lastly envy. Its taken me 4 watchings to rationalize this last one. These 4 emotions are not usually all grouped into one, let alone so strongly (hit by a bulldozer strong). I feel envy with him, because at the end, when he laughs, either subconsciously aware of whats happened, aware of it, or just some weird Donnie thing. Whatever anyone's guess as to what & why he laughs, you can tell he is at peace. Peace with himself & the world. This probably wouldn't have had so much impact, had the not not be narrated. Its cause of this, that even though he dies, I envy him, cause he's attained something, I can only hope for, someday.This movie, due sheerly by its immense hold it has over me, has now become me ultimate favourite. I recommend it to everyone & hope they view life differently as I do.As odd is it may sound, its almost like this movie created a midlife crisis in me. At the very least, its made me aware of deep emotions that I've been ignoring or not realizing are there. (I feel a therapist calling me name now, lol)If you want to see a movie, have an open mind & are accepting of things not easily defined, definitely see this one. It is so powerful, thought provoking & emotional on every level, you'll find yourself thinking about your own life. That is if, you get this movie, like I did.Have a watch & spread the word. Also, I'd say, watch this movie alone. You need to see it, & think on your own, not have someones influence on you. You need this so that your reactions & thoughts are solely yours & yours alone, not what the person next to you is thinking, or gonna think about your reaction. As much as we don't want to admit it, we react differently around people.
Do not be afraid of the darko! Why? Because `Donnie Darko' is one of the best and original films of 2001. Jake Gyllenhaal is amazing as Donnie Darko. Donnie is just your average teenager who has schizophrenic visions of a demonic rabbit who tells him to flood his school and burn motivational speaker's mansions, among other things. Moreover, Frank the Rabbit (as he likes to be called) warns Donnie that the world would end in 28 days 6 hours 42 minutes 12 seconds. Talk about a real life rabbit test!! Director Richard Kelly's debut film is a masterpiece. Kelly is a director to watch for in the future, and i am sure will not be left in the dark. The supporting cast of: Mary Mcdonnell, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Patrick Swayze, Jena Malone, Noah Wyle, and Drew Barrymore `energized' the film with our bunny and Mr. Darko.  So you should definitely see `Donnie Darko' in 1 day 1hr 1 min 10 seconds or how long it takes you to get to your nearby video store. ***** Excellent
This is one of these movies that not just bend but brake virtually every rule of cinematic storytelling in a way so unique, mind-boggling and satisfying at the same time, no else can follow. Do not expect to see another movie "inspired by" or "of the same sort" as Donnie Darko. It is one of a kind and that makes it even more special. Richard Kelly set an impossible standard for himself with his very first feature, it will be extremely difficult to top this one, if ever.The story is, well, simply inexplicable! This is the selling point of the movie. It blends a number of diverse elements, 80's nostalgia, teen angst, depression, insanity, death, romance, sacrifice, comedy, tragedy... and a little bit of time traveling by the way. And did I forget to mention the giant rabbit? How could all these combine into a meaningful and coherent whole? As it turns out, under the commanding hand of the writer/director, the result is far from coherent, but flooding - literally - with meaning in all kinds of levels. The finished product is like looking at a painting. It isn't the original intend of the artist or the distinct parts of it that are the most important, but the emotional impact it causes on the viewer. There is a point about two thirds into the movie, were emotion just takes hold and doesn't let go until its incredible, chilling finale that has and will continue to fuel endless discussions. Is it easy to understand? Certainly not, at least with the usual sense of the word. Is it easy to feel? Definitely! And this is one of the reasons why DD has become such a cult phenomenon. Think of it as David Lynch but on one of his very good, lucid days.In terms of execution, the movie shines in many ways and is not hampered or handicapped by its small budget. Performances are great from both lead and supporting actors. Patrick Swayze gives his best in years and Mary McDonnell is simply devastating. But the real star here is Jake Gyllenhaal, who totally owns the film, conveying emotion and maturity with exceptional confidence. The screen couple of him and Jena Malone also has great chemistry and makes you deeply root for the characters and their dark fates. There is also a wonderful soundtrack, complete with vintage 80's tracks and a haunting score by Michael Andrews. The closing sequence with Gary Jules' "Mad World" playing easily qualifies as one of the most memorable pairings of music and film.One certainly needs to see this movie at least three times to start making up his mind about what actually happened. But this is beside the point. Some things are better left unexplained. Donnie Darko is above all else an experience, one that provokes the mind and the heart, an existential fairy tale and an unforgettable journey in the dark alleys of the human soul.


                
Its really hard to say something else about this movie except that its just amazing.I watched it recently and just don't know what to say.It affected me so much that i can watch it over again and again and it just won't get boring or something like that.The whole idea of the movie is so philosophic and distracted from the real world and in the same time so easy to see, so easy to feel.The moment when he finally understands what he needs to do its so highly romantic and tragic(I even cried at that moment and I'm not afraid to say it), but after all its a kind of beating your own instinct for survival.But i don't know a person who,in case he had everything friends,family and love would let them fade away.The meaning of the life is in having people you love and care about and you are sure they are OK. Because at the end if your really close person has died or got hurt and only you have the chance to make it all right,would you let this chance go away....?


                
I'm not one for top 10 polls, or top fifty or what have you, point in case, such things are too subjective and stir up useless debate. However, if I was making my own top 10 poll, this movie would certainly sit comfortably on it as far as the best of the decade. Storytelling this dense and compelling transcends intellectual engrossment. This movie runs in the vein of films like 'The Fountain' and even shows shades of renaissance noir as in 'Memento'. Jake Gyllenhal rips this film apart as he ebbs and flows from fits of hostility to drowning in pure delusion. His performance in Darko flies under the radar as one of the best in recent memory. This is a film that deserves several repeat views, and is deserving of equal amounts of debate and analysis. It is also demanding to the nth degree, it will leave you spent as the credits begin to roll but also dreaming. If this film doesn't haunt you, I'm not sure what will.


                
"Donnie Darko" is the very quintessence of cinema. Enigmatic, absorbing, humorous and thought-provoking - it is a film that throws up endless possibilities and debates, and ingeniously allows a whole range of interpretations that viewers might wish to pursue. There are many viewers who prefer films that provide immediate closure. In the minds of such viewers, films like "Donnie Darko" are unsatisfying or irritating or, worst of all, pointless. Then there are viewers who like to be challenged, perhaps even teased, by films. I would urge everyone - regardless of their usual preference - to give "Donnie Darko" a go. Even those who are usually dead against subjective and open-ended films of this kind will almost certainly find themselves questioning and pondering over what they have experienced. And those who revel in the mysterious, the enigmatic and the downright peculiar will absolutely LOVE this film.Troubled teenager Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) awakens on a mountain road on the morning of October 1st 1988, having either cycled there in his sleep (one interpretation), or as the result of being trapped in a month-long time loop that begins in that place and on that date (another interpretation). In the early hours of October 2nd 1988, Donnie is awakened from his sleep by a giant, grotesque bunny rabbit named Frank, who lures him away from his house to a nearby golf course and reveals to him details of the imminent end of the world. While he is out of the house, a plane engine mysteriously falls from the sky and smashes into Donnie's bedroom: bizarrely, there is no indication of where the engine fell from as no plane lost its engine in that area on that night. Having apparently cheated death as a result of his hallucinatory relationship with Frank, Donnie spends the rest of the month experiencing incredible, and often disturbing, events as time ticks inexorably towards Frank's terrifying deadline. Guided by Frank, he carries out irrational actions - such as burning down the residence of behavioural guru Jim Cunningham (Patrick Swayze). Each time, Donnie's actions - however mad or misguided they may seem - lead to worthwhile consequences (e.g Cunningham's house turns out to be the site of a child porn ring, which is uncovered when firefighters arrive to tackle the blaze started by Donnie). It eventually transpires that Donnie is living in a tangent universe which began on the night he evaded death in the plane engine accident., and only Donnie can set straight this potentially catastrophic time corruption.... even though it will mean sacrificing himself in the original October 2nd accident."Donnie Darko" is a superb film on so many levels. Richard Kelly directs the film with an incredible eye for striking detail and his script is full of quotable dialogue and inventive, philosophical ideas. The narrative, which seems initially confusing, is proved by repeat viewings of the film to be extremely clever. Even if repeat viewings never fully clear the confusion, the ingenuity of the story comes from the fact that it invites and supports several different readings of what the film is really all about. Nothing is made explicit, everything is left open, and for that reason the film remains a fascinating experience regardless of how often one re-watches it. The music and photography (by Michael Andrews and Steven Poster respectively) are brilliantly atmospheric and add yet more to the film's incredible bag of goodies. "Donnie Darko" is quite literally life-changing - a film like no other, and one of the very best movies of all-time.
i find it unbelievable that someone can come to this site, look at a film that has an average rating of 8.3 (from over 32000 votes) and have the audacity to comment that "there's no accounting for taste" when they think the film is rubbish. i'm not saying we're right and you're wrong, but you don't even provide a decent argument as to why you don't like it, you just call it a confused mess. clearly you didn't even understand the film or take the time to try and figure it out. there's a reason why this film is loved by so many people and you've just outright refused to figure out why that is, and, in your inability to try and understand the film, you've become frustrated like a child and decided that we all lack taste i don't think this film is Shakespeare. i'm not even sure if it all adds up without loopholes. but i do know that i thoroughly enjoyed it, even more so when i looked into it. ultimately a film is a piece of art. art is supposed to have emotional impact, and this film did, with over 32000 people. i'm sure you're list of favourite films includes the godfather, apocalypse now... lots of really highbrow films with epic and wonderful tales. because this film is a little different, is written and directed by a new face, stars a young cast, featured patrick swayze, didn't feature al pacino, wasn't directed by martin scorcese, and wasn't scored by the London philarmonic orchestra (or something similar) you write it off. i hate you.


                
(Note: Review is based on the Director's Cut version) This film is one of those films you truly have to see to both believe and understand. To be perfectly honest I wasn't quite sure what to make of this film the first time I saw it due to its, for lack of a better term, strangeness but upon repeated viewings the film begins to make sense and you'll begin to appreciate the intricate plotting of Richard Kelly's script, the fine acting of the cast, and the overall excellence of the film Donnie Darko.Jake Gyllenhaal is the one who carries the film and his performance is nothing short of hypnotic to watch. Gyllenhaal is perfect in the role as the weird, troubled, and confused title character. Gyllenhaal never steps out of character and it is his performance that keeps you glued to the screen even during some of the film's weirdest and confusing moments. In short, the talent that he has that would appear during the years that followed this film's release is seen here in an inkling.The rest of the cast is not very far behind Gyllenhaal in terms of their performances. Jena Malone gives a surprising performance as Donnie's girlfriend and she is in many ways the emotional anchor of the film. She is also the source of sanity for Donnie throughout the film as it goes along and even she is drawn into whatever is effecting Donnie. Holmes Osborne and Mary McDonnell play Donnie's parents who seem not to be sure of what to make of their son's unusual hallucinations. Added to the family is Donnie's sisters played by the seemingly innocent Daveigh Chase and with, a nice sense of sibling rivalry, by Gyllenhall's sister Maggie. Add to these appearances by Katharine Ross, Drew Barrymore & Noah Wyle as the authority figures of Donnie's life plus Patrick Swayze as some self-motivator and the highly unusual appearance of Frank (played by James Duval) and you get a spectacular cast.And now onto the script. Richard Kelly has managed to create a script that is both gripping, well-textured, and confusing as hell upon the first viewing (or two). The script is layer upon layer of story, character development, and a plot involving parallel universes and time travel (I think). The script explores issues of acceptance, existence, and everything short of and including the meaning of life. Not east stuff to get the first time around but as I wrote above, repeated viewings makes it easier to understand (plus the fact that Richard Kelly himself has said the film is open to one's own interpretation). In short, the most confusing film script since 2001: A Space Odyssey is the only way I can really describe Donnie Darko.Beyond the script lies a film masterpiece. The film is beautifully photographed from start to finish, starting with the sweeping opening shot of Donnie and ending with the waving between characters at the end of the film. The music score for the film is an interesting combination of well-chosen pop songs (including the opening song "Never Tear Us Apart" by INXS and the hypnotic "Mad World") and a well done score by Michael Andrews to create a hypnotic soundtrack to an hypnotic film. Add to this some weird special effects to Donnie's visions and it is a journey into<U+0085>well something (as I said this is one of those "you figure out what it means" films).Overall, Donnie Darko is a masterpiece of modern film-making. With an exceptional performance by Jake Gyllenhaal, fine performances from the rest of the cast, an intricately layered script, beautiful photographed, well scored, and being truly hypnotic, Donnie Darko is a must see for anyone who wants to take a though-provoking two plus hours and go into the unknown. See this as soon as possible. You won't regret it.


                
When I first heard about this film I did'nt know what to make of it. The fact that one of its central characters was a giant rabbit. Although after seeing it I was just blown away by it. Director Richard Kelly covers so many topics in this film such as teen alienation, family issues, school, time travel and philosophy.The result is a powerful piece of social satire and American popular culture.Jake Gyllenhall is superb as the rebellious James Dean style chacter who is told the world will end within a month.The film demands repeat viewings as it can be hard to follow at times but is certainly a modern day masterpiece.It is good to see this film finally getting the respect that it deserves.Richard Kelly Roll on your next masterpiece.


                
While I'm a big fan of movies that question things, this movie was a waste of time. Some people might classify this as an "intelligent movie" but I Loathe the day I read and trusted the internet reviews on IMDb.com for this "intelligent movie".Ill give it one point for good acting and for the fact that I liked the music choices, but it goes down hill from there. The music was just played on top of the scenes as if it wasn't actually a part of the movie, hardly any fade in/fade out. The whole time in the movie I was thinking please don't end at the beginning and boom I had to watch the whole movie to find out what? Nothing, I should just have done a fast forward to the end to see the truth and not wasted my time with all the in between nonsense that in the end proved doublespeak.Don't bother seeing it if you don't like movies with no ending, or futile endings. This movie certainly doesn't belong in the top 250 I rate it 1in10 other movies deserve this top spot. Not even close to the originality and mind-blowing coolness of a movie/ movies like Momento.My 2 cents


                
Donnie Darko may be the cultiest film to emerge this side of the millennium. It did disastrously at the box-office, leaving many people unsure how to take its far out ideas and blinding layers of surrealism. But that hasn't prevented it from becoming a highly regarded cult classic. Many people enjoy deconstructing its messages and possibilities, and it became so popular that just three years later a Director's Cut was released. It's that resonant with people.DD is a difficult film to write a review about. I'm uncertain how to put it into words because I don't want to get this wrong. It's a film that changes my perceptions with every viewing. When I first saw it, I quite enjoyed its wealth of ideas. But on subsequent viewings, it didn't seem as satisfying and makes less sense the more times its watched. But that doesn't change the fact it has a rich and varied screenplay. I didn't always know what DD was, but it never ceased to amaze me.DD is the type of film David Lynch might have dreamt up. There does seem something Lynchian to its storytelling. Eccentric smalltown folk. A layer of bizarreness that hovers around the narrative and eventually punctuates it. And most importantly, the sly dissection of smalltown America.Jake Gyllenhaal is Donnie Darko, and in an opening that mirrors the beginning of Lynch's Blue Velvet, Donnie is found waking up in the middle of a country road. His bike is off to the side. He smirks and moves off back into town.DD is set in the October of 1988. Donnie is an outspoken young man with deep emotional problems. His psychiatrist Dr Thurman (Katharine Ross) is making little headway with him. And he has the disturbing habit of avoiding taking his medication.One night, Donnie dreams about a giant rabbit called Frank. When Donnie dreams, he sleepwalks. He goes outside. Frank is waiting, and informs him the world will end in a month. Just as Donnie learns this, an engine turbine from a passing plane crashes through his bedroom. This one bizarre accident sets off a chain reaction of increasingly odd events. All the while the countdown to the end of the world continues.DD is one of the most unusual films I've seen in a long time. It's not always clear what director Richard Kelly is trying to say with his debut feature, but his direction is engaging enough to keep you involved throughout this bizarre but often quite fascinating film.If the film's intentions are not always clear, the fine cast helps to breathe life into it. Why Jake Gyllenhaal ever agreed to sign onto to such an unusual film is frankly a mystery but his performance really can't be faulted. Gyllenhaal is certainly an actor with a future, but I think he works best when he's served by a strong screenplay. I still have yet to decide if DD's script is as profound as it's made out to be, but there must have been something that attracted Gyllenhaal to it. And he makes the most of his screen time.Donnie's unravelling mental state is very ably communicated by Gyllenhaal. His insolent attitude is quite startling on occasion. And the role of DD is certainly unusual. I mean the very idea of a boy's dreams of a giant rabbit making dire prophecies about the end of the world is sure to raise more than a few eyebrows. But somehow Gyllenhaal pulls it off admirably and brings lots of interesting ambiguities to the scenario. Is it all true, or just the overactive imagination of a very disturbed young man?Richard Kelly supports Gyllenhaal with an imaginatively chosen cast. At the head of the line is Jena Malone as Gretchen, the new girl in school and Donnie's (sort of) girlfriend. She brings a tough, forthright attitude that matches Gyllenhaal's every bizarre step of the way.And then there's Drew Barrymore as Karen, a freethinking teacher at Donnie's school. I'm not convinced Drew Barrymore is all that much of an actress. But I enjoyed her performance here. Karen's independent thinking is quite well suited to Barrymore's often aloof style of acting. It's the first time I've ever perked up whenever she's around.And you mustn't miss Patrick Swayze's hilarious turn as a self-important motivational speaker. His speeches about the polar opposites between love and fear are very amusing. Donnie's cynical debates over Swayze's life plans are fun to watch too. This may be the closest thing to a good performance Patrick Swayze has ever done.DD is a film rich in ideas. It touches base with many radical concepts. From time-travel to parallel realities and even the life-paths of each individual person. Its certainly nice to see a film in this day and age with more than one idea in its head. But sometimes DD feels like it has one idea too many. Which only adds further complications to an already unclear screenplay.I was never exactly sure what new direction the film was going to pull me in next. Or even what Frank is supposed to represent. And then there's the ending. DD has a finale so mind-bending I wasn't sure if it was conceptual brilliance or purely a screenwriter's cop-out.But nonetheless, I'm giving DD 10/10. If its a film that doesn't always make narrative sense, it at least succeeded in making me think. Quite a bit actually. The different avenues it chooses to explore are never less than fascinating. Its got a wonderful selection of the 80s greatest hits to sift through. And the cast add so much drive and energy that you can't help but be swept along. This film may always be an eternal mystery, but it's that element that makes Donnie Darko so fascinating to behold.
When the Mad World was smoothly embedded at the end of the movie, I was totally moved. And The Butterfly Effect quickly rushed through my head. Both of them got a protagonist who had the so called mental problem and they did things like traveling through the time and finally chose a sacrificed way to achieve the universal happy-ending (of course except him), full of mysterious things, and remanded you the life is full of possibilities.This kind of films is trying to deliver a supernatural story in a logical way, so they ended with a yanking to the stark reality, but the stark reality which should be extremely sad became a happy-ending because the whole movie told us there were ways worse than that. And this mad world still full of possibilities.There are a lot of intellectual conversations in this film: God, the belief of god, time traveling, English literature, love, fear, and life. I love this movie, mostly for its mind-stimulating story-telling and incidentally for the song Mad World.
I'd watched this film a couple of years ago and never thought much of it. Like another IMDb user states I just thought this was a weird film just for the sake of being weird.In the last four months I have maybe watched it another 20 times, at first out of boredom and then because it dazzled me so much. I like this film so much because I don't get it. I'm not as smart as some of the users of this site so I haven't completely figured it out but I'm certainly working on it. Reading some of the FAQ's hs helped me and I'm going to look into it even more.There are some scenes that seem so powerful and I don't really know why. The scenewhere Jim Cunningham is talking to the school children and Donnie calls him the anti-Christ, the scene where the dance-troup are performing at the talent contest, the scene where donnie tells cherita that its all gonna be OK in the future etc etc.What an unbelievable and inspirational film, I can't wait to read more into it and uncover the depths that I currently don't understand.Michael


                
Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a normal everyday teenager; well, he was until a jet engine crashed into Donnie's house and triggers a parallel world, which will end in 28 days. Frank, a 6 ft tall rabbit is sent to warn Donnie of the end of the world and help guide Donnie into a position where he will send the engine back through time, which will close the parallel time frame and save the world. Donnie meets a girl called Gretchen (Jena Malone), who has moved into the neighbourhood and has been put in the same class as Donnie; Donnie takes an immediate like to her. Frank manipulates Donnie into burning down a man's house which, means that Donnie's mum has to take his sister to a dancing competition. To get to the location of the competition they must go by plane, which leaves the plane in the correct position to deposit its engine into the black hole. As the climax begins to unfold Donnie unwittingly gets Gretchen killed, and realises his mother and sister will also die if he doesn't close up the black hole. At the end of the film Donnie kills Frank. Closing the black hole means that Donnie will sacrifice his own life, saves Gretchen from being killed, he doesn't burn down Cunningham's (Patrick swayze) house so that means that his mother and sister aren't on the plane (the other mother has taken them). He also doesn't kill Frank and everybody wakes up on what would have been the 1st of October (the beginning of the film) to news that Donnie has been killed by the jet engine that landed in his room.Although the film has a very complex plot, it has you gripped from beginning to end. "Donnie Darko" is not a film that you can categorise into just one type of genre, its thrilling, it's full of fantasy, the whole film is a mystery, its got drama within it and also sci-fi. The film has a very interesting ending; it goes round in a circular motion, the more the film moves on the closer you get back to the beginning, so by the end of the film you are back to where you started, in this case back at Donnie's house when the engine crashes in to Donnie's bedroom. All the answers to the ending to of film are there you have just got to look hard to find them. This is not a film I would recommend to anyone who likes to lay back and just watch a film without having to do much thinking. The film was made in America which suggests that it's going to be a happy ending and everything will work out fine. This to some extent is true but however it's not for Donnie who dies. The movie was set in 1988 and take place over a period of 28 days. "Donnie Darko" proved popular with the teenage audience. This is because the film is about teenagers and their life at secondary school, which a teenage audience can relate to. Many people stereotype teenage films into that they are all sex, or "lovey-dovey" but when the release of "Donnie Darko" came about this all changed. "Donnie Darko" is a film which is similar to "back to the future" and if people give the film a chance would appeal to an older audience as well. This movie is beautifully made, considering the budget was a mere $4.5 million. Richard Kelly the writer and director of this film were only 26 when this film hit the theatres in October 2001. Throughout the film there are many interesting use of special effects. The one that stands out to me the most is when Donnie is in the bathroom taking his medication and Frank appears, as Donnie reaches out his hand is stopped by a rippling sheet of 'glass'. Frank repeats this process and the same happens to him. This stands out to me the most because its something you don't expect to happen and I like things to surprise me. Donnie also starts to see "wormholes" coming out of people's chests, seeming to psychically illuminate where they are going in the immediate future. It's an eye-opener for Donnie and it leads him into the field of time travel. These "wormholes" look like tubes of water and they are located in the stomach of the people he looks at, they move also the air and "take" the person to where they want to go."Donnie Darko" has a questionable climax (all the answers are in the film but many people choose not to look for clues) but I think it is in keeping with the movie's theme of how unexplained events can change a person, if not a whole family, even a small town. Donnie Darko is on to something - he is searching for meaning in life and in the universe (he has an interest in time travel). His girlfriend, Gretchen is searching for peace and beauty in the world. It is rare in movies today to see young people engaged in such rational thoughts. That is part of what makes "Donnie Darko" so refreshing. With all these concepts taken into account I would say that "Donnie Darko" is one of the best films I have ever seen and I would certainly recommend it to others if they haven't already seen this masterpiece, especially since it was quite a low budget film and it has still managed to have an impact on the audience with the special effects, which you would not usually expect from a film of this amount.


                
The way in which Richard Kelly has crafted the piece to be humorous, entertaining, tragic, dark, and above all, deep at the same time is a credit to him. Whilst most movies aim for to evoke one emotion from the viewer, by being purely comical, or purely dramatic etc., Donnie Darko evokes a whole spectrum of emotion... and in the end it amounts to an overwhelmingly great experience...The many layers of the plot relay truths about the destructive society in which we live... Jim Cunningham being worshiped despite his flawed character; the man who needs the most help advising the rest... the school system failing those who need the most help... the delusional parents who push their premature children into the adult world.. the joke that is psychiatry and the almost uniform methods of treating mental health problems... teenage angst and conformity... This movie really makes you think.The acting is superb. Donnie's character is likable yet disturbing at times, and slightly cynical. Jake Gyllenhaal's acting confirms that he is one of the few young actors that will outlast manufactured actors such as Josh Hartnett. He holds the movie on his own, and even when he is not speaking at all, he commands the scene.You have to see this movie. Not just once, but many many times. The intellect seems hard to fathom at first, but it really isn't the basis of the film. I think this film is a comment on society, but it is an extremely entertaining and fulfilling experience in the same. The humor lightens the heavy nature of the film and adds to the enjoyment.Anyone who doubts the integrity of this movie or the directors intentions is pretentious. The effect of this movie can't be under-credited; it is stimulating, left of center and completely unforgettable. After reading many comments which tag this movie as being an unstructured mess, I have to say that you need to get a grip. If YOU didn't UNDERSTAND the movie, don't discredit it and pick at it merely to redeem yourself in your own egotistic eyes.Great soundtrack too. The montage at the end with Mad World playing over the top shook me. So engaging.MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!


                
One of my all time favorte films, Donnie Darko is a film that I think most people will either love or hate. It's a genre bending head trip. No film has ever envoked so many emotions in me. A lot has been made over the movies plot. What does it all mean? I have my own ideas and they might or might not be right. But for me the plot really is secondary. The films real strenght is its ability to play with my emotions.Jake Gylenhall is outstanding as Donnie Darko. He has the whole teen angst thing down. It reminded me of a lot of emotions I felt at that age and sometimes still do. Mary McDowell and Holmes Osbourne do a great job of portraying parents who desperately want to help their son , but can't really comprehend what's going on. Drew Barrymore, Noah Wyle, Maggie Gylenhall, and Kathrine Ross have small roles but make a big impact.Its hard to bealive this is Richard Kellys first film in the directors chair. The mood he is able to create is haunting. He envokes darkness, an eerie tone, and a sense of surrealism. The 1980's seems to be weird era for this sort of film but somehow it works. Kelly does a remarkably superb job at uses the right soundtrack and score to make a scene memorable.This is without a doubt near the top of my list of favortes and I recommend it to anyone who dosn't mind a plot thats requires a little work to follow


                
Donnie Darko tells the story of a delusional teenager who begins to see visions of a a man in a blue bunny suit, who orders him to do certain tasks through suggestive clues and voices, to which he insists he MUST do, or the world will end.Now, really, this is a movie you must see to get the plot, if I were to give the full, detailed, complex plot it would take far too long (And will probably you leave you more stumped) to which reveals the majestic brilliance of Donnie Darko; which is that their are endless amounts of theories and interpretations, making it one of the most thought-provoking fantasy of recent years.The acting is superb (Maggie Ghyllenhal, Jake Ghyllenhal and Drew Barrymore to name a few), the music is perfect, subtle and atmospheric and the fantastic direction, coupled with a roller-coaster ride of a storyline will leave you of utmost interest and intrigue like no other movie. Not only that, but you will find yourself watching it more than a few times, as it will stick in your mind until you reveal your own personal interpretation (To which you may experience a Donnie Darko 'phase' which I did, warning: It WILL take up a sizable chunk of your life).But adding to the already deep and complex storyline, there are also a vast amount of underlying themes, most noticeable the character Patrick Swayze plays, in which it represents a false 'superior', referring clearly to religion.Donnie Darko is truly a classic, one of my favorite films and I recommend it to anyone. Incredible.


                
Even if this isn't technically the best film I've ever seen, it easily remains my favorite movie of all time. Every thing about it just feels right - from Jake Gyllenhaal and Mary McDonnel's terrific understated performances, to Kelly's twisted vision of "Back to the Future," "The Breakfast Club," "Harvey" and Clive Barker.Most everyone has commented on the score but I will say it's the most well-chosen soundtrack I've ever heard (on the original version, not the director's cut) with most of the lyrics, i.e. The Church, Echo and the Bunnymen and the brilliant re-interpretation of Tears For Fears' "Mad World," fitting in with the plot and script.I would recommend the original cut of this film in general, as it leaves the answers up to your interpretations. There's something harrowing and beautiful about how open-ended yet connected everything feels in the mind-boggling climax.In the very least, Donnie Darko is worth admiration for what it attempts to achieve. This film is a must-see for anyone who thinks they've seen it all.


                
