If you are young and dissatisfied with your family, if you do not have too many good friends, and you are having a feeling that the whole world is stupid, evil and against you, and you are wishing that someday you will have some special scientific power to destroy all evil and save the world..... Donnie Darko is the perfect movie for you.Its a fairy tale cashing in on introvert teen sentiments! Surreal is not the right word, Donnie Darko is based on science. Well at least it has a few sprinkles of unexplained scientific twists here and there to help you spend a lot of time looking for logic even after the movie is over. This is an added advantage because you spend money for a two hour movie, and then wonder and discuss about it for two years. Great deal?Well, the movie is about a boy who seems a bit retard and drowsy because of his psychotic medications. He faces his family which is not too supportive about his confusions about life. He faces friends in school who are not exactly his type. He faces other grown ups like teachers and doctors around him who do not have enough intellect to understand the depth of his mind. And everyone around him is mostly dishonest, blunt or evil to the core! Being shy and drowsy, there was not much chance that he could find a girlfriend. But one day the most beautiful girl in school chooses him as the cutest guy in class! A perfect dream come true for a troubled teenage boy! So at last it seems like his troubled life will come to an end! But not for long....! Soon he will have to play the role of a knight in shining armor to save his girlfriend's life... and by lying down on his bed.The director is smart! He was only 25 when he made this movie. He remembered his teenage days and the complexes that an average troubled teenage mind usually has about the grown up world. He totally cashed in on that. He added some new concept from hypothetical science to make a few parts of the movie a bit difficult (often impossible) to understand, so that the viewers do not feel its cliché, and get a subject to talk about it for years to come.So if you are grown up and confident about yourself, you will readily figure out what this movie is trying to do. But if you are still confused about the world, you will probably love this movie, irrespective of your age!


                
Well... when this movie was released in my country, I still hadn't read much about it, I only had a notion that it was causing a bit of a stir in the US; but I had the feeling that it would be just one of those gimmicky, pretentious "weirdo" movies that come along from time to time, and which people choose for no apparent reason to become cult movies; and then when you watch them you see right through them and realise that it was all just hype. So I passed.But then the whole Donnie Darko thing has ballooned so much throughout the year, that I found it impossible to go on without finding out what the fuss was about. So I rented it.And you know what? I was right all along. There's nothing here but hype.Please don't give me that "You're just dissing it because you're not smart enough to understand it" line. If I don't understand it, it means the director and the writer (who happen to be the same person) didn't do their job right. Don't compare it to Memento; there's no problem in understanding Memento, as long as you pay attention. This just doesn't make any bloody sense. Don't tell me to read the friggin Philosophy book; if I'm required to read some text to understand what was on the screen, then this Kelly guy had better find a different line of work. And yes, since you ask, I have read the thing, and it explains the story, and you know what, it still isn't very good. A story that needs to be so painstakingly explained to make sense, becomes hollow.I hope everyone will continue to have fun endlessly debating the "finer points" of this gobbledygook. Me, I'd rather watch real films.


                
Let me see if I can summarise this extremely confusing plot in the simplest possible terms. "Donnie Darko" follows Donnie (Gyllenhaal) a troubled teenager who one night follows a voice in his head who leads him out of his room and house and avoids death when his room is soon after hit by a falling jet engine from the sky, which would have definitely killed him. The voice that lead him out of his room is an illusionary character in a bunny suit named Frank. Frank warns Donnie that in 28 days the world will end.In fact, what has happened is that Donnie has entered a tangent universe - he was supposed to be killed but wasn't and as such the current reality (universe) is wrong, and in fact will end in 28 days. Thereafter Donnie follows this voice (Frank) who tells him to do things (which ultimately will lead to the tangent universe being closed off and the primary or proper universe becoming reality again)..confused yet? It eventually turns out that Frank is the man that Donnie kills in this alternate or tangent universe - so had Donnie died as he was supposed to, Frank would still be alive. Frank helps ensure that the tangent universe will end so that he can exist again. And so, there's some predestinational paradox???...yada, yada, it goes back to the beginning where Donnie DOESN't get out of bed and is get my the plane part hitting his room and the normal universe becomes reality again.You see? It's quite impossible to describe this film in simple or even coherent terms. It simply doesn't make sense because it is science fiction. So what is the film about then? Fate? Ummm. Destiny or something? Tangent universes? Since time travel or the event of some guy in a bunny suit telling you to cheat death and creating an alternate universe are impossible, it renders anything this film purports to be about null and void. If you want to watch something about the different paths our lives can take maybe watch Sliding Doors. Sure its cheesy and sappy but at least you know what the hell is going on. Its not pretentious and doesn't require reading on time travel and time paradoxes.The film has quite an impressive cast: Gyllenhall, Maggie Gyllenhall, Patrick Swayze, Jena Malone, Drew Barrymore. There is nothing really note-worthy about the characters they play. Nothing really needs to be said beyond the attempted analysis of the absurdity of the plot.There is absolutely no explanation for the ending, really. A plane traveling 28 days after Donnie cheats death, hits turbulence, goes through a wormhole and hits Donnie's house 28 days earlier, killing him? Well, I guess everything's wrapped up in a neat little package, then.Enough said about the ending, there shouldn't have even been a beginning. Why would Frank lure Donnie out of bed to avoid death, if this alternative universe would result in Frank dying? I don't quite understand that and I don't really care. This isn't calculus, I might try and figure out an equation because it has relevance to life, this doesn't. This has relevance to nothing. Why does this tangent universe exists? No idea. What significance is it? None. How does what happen in this alternate universe relate to themes of destiny, fate? It doesn't. If you're going to do something about time travel stick to the comedy where Michael J Fox has to save his Dad from Biff or something. Let's not get all deep and meaningful about it and pretend like it really could happen.Well, I certainly wouldn't recommend this film unless you're spaced out of your mind, in which case it would be perfect.
Lot of buzz about this one; people either seemed to think it was the coolest thing around or an example of overcleverness.There's a fine line between clever and stupid, as the saying goes, and Donnie Darko doesn't cross that line - it stays firmly on the side of stupid. Oh, it <i>thinks</i> it's clever, but it outsmarts itself, dissolving instead into a puddle of drivel.Basic story is that Donnie (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a high schooler with some awesomely awful visions; he keeps seeing an evil mutant bunny rabbit who tells him to commit acts of violence and that the world's ending in 28 days. You know, your garden variety doom-and-gloom stuff. Donnie doesn't know how to deal with these horrendous visions, so his family sends him to a psychiatrist.in a very early scene, one of Donnie's acting-out episodes (or is it sleepwalking) finds him outside the house in the middle of the night. Suddenly, a plane engine crashes into his house, landing in his bedroom. No one's hurt, but it's the first of several weird tragedies to befall him and his family. Donnie thinks it's a sign.Maggie Gyllenhaal (who, as you might surmise from her name, is Jake's sister in real life) plays his older sister here, and she's fantastic in the few scenes she's in. Mary McDonnell plays their mom. Some guy and some girl play the father and the younger sister, respectively; neither made an impression on me. Jena Malone plays Donnie's new girlfriend. Drew Barrymore has a thankfully small role as a teacher. Even Patrick Swayze shows up.Time travel, philosophy, nihilism, evil clowns, evil bunny rabbits, and funky coincidences all play roles. Absurdity upon absurdity is heaped onto the steaming pile of plot with the apparent intent to confuse and obfuscate. Weirdness does not cleverness equal, sadly. J. Gyllenhaal is miscast; he looks too pure and innocent.


                
Darko is one of those occasional movies confused for being brilliant. After two viewings, I took a guilty pleasure in this film that I regarded as a cute, specific and unique homage to the 80's and movies themselves. But it was only after watching the DVD version with the Director's Commentary that the truth was revealed. Mr. Kelly's visual acuity outweighs his story-telling ability because the story he claims to be telling is not the one I saw nor one I would ever want to see. So heed my warning, approach this film with an open-mindedness and revel in its great soundtrack, clever plot, and well-turned performances and do not tarnish your experience by trying to connect Mr. Kelly's wayward attempt at telling his story of some sort of Super Hero. In this case, your interpretation of the film will prove infinitely superior to his.


                
(This is why I am not a Film Critic)Sorry I didn't get it...its like abstract, I enjoy most films but this is like one of those paintings by a famous artist that looks like a four year old penguin did it and art critics are amazed,throw paint on a canvas then roll pineapples on it or something, and us 'normal' people cannot believe it sells for squillions. I personally think their synapses are completely screwed. In another human these thoughts are considered a mental illness and they get locked away. If left it gets out of hand and they kill people.Sorry but its nonsense and people pretending to be clever like to be able to state they see what is being 'said'...yea so do I, its "look at me I am a genius,pay me for this crap"....If you shove stuff up your nose or stick needles in your arm you will like this film, if you are like me and think murderers should die child molesters should be burned to death then watch something else. Told you I wasn't a Film Critic...


                
If high school student Donnie Darko is simply a paranoid schizophrenic suffering from delusions, then why do these delusions reveal actual things about people?  I have no idea.Can someone explain "Donnie Darko" to me?  No, I mean, I *understood* it, but can someone *explain* it to me?  What was this movie saying?  What was it trying to do?  And even if I knew, would it matter?  I doubt it.Jake Gyllenhaal does an excellent Tobey Maguire imitation and Mary McDonnel, Drew Barrymore, Noah Wylie, and Katherine Ross appear to be in the film for no other reason than they owed the director a favor.


                
Oh my, I can't believe there are actually people who liked this stinker. I'm having a hard time deciding where to begin, because there was SO much wrong with this movie. The script, the plot, the acting... WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?? Donnie Darko is a clichéd mess of a teen angst film that tries to be deep and edgy, but rather ends up being sloppy, dull, and derivative. Jake Gyllenhaal plays your typical outcast teen, a character done better in hundreds of films of the past 30 years or so. He escapes his social torments by doing bad things for an invisible rabbit. The whole rabbit deal can't decide if it's trying to be funny or creepy, and it comes off as neither, just kinda stupid.The surprise ending just made me wonder why I had to sit through an hour and a half of this drivel, when it all could have been over in 5 minutes.Bleh. Not often does a movie make me feel like someone has stolen a portion of my life. Donnie Darko accomplished that in spades.


                
THIS IS ONLY FOR THOSE WHO HAS SEEN THE MOVIE ALREADY... This movies to me sums up to stupidity. Some man in a rabbit costume comes to a probably mentally ill teen and says the world will end. At the end of the movie I think the storywriter theorizes that the world would not have ended if the teen died. In between this there is a collection of profanity, a boy doing pervert acts in the presence of a psychologist, time-travel chit-chats, a chick getting nailed, a teen challenging his teachers, a chick getting teased, some girl going to Harvard, some psychologist have the hots for Mr. Roger and classifying the world as either fear and love. You also need to watch the movie a couple of time to get the meaning of certain things. I personally think you do not need an all-star cast to make a movie like this. All-star cast require good scripts or its not worth the cost and production time.
*Warning: Possible SPOILERS....*
Poor Donnie. His family just doesn't understand him. His classmates think he's weird. And evidently, his world is coming to an end. Now, if Donnie (Jake Gyllenhaal) were an existentialist, he may have spent more time pondering the strange goings-on that directly affected his life. Instead, he conceals himself, wrapped in a pity me, I'm adorable brood, and talks to a six-foot tall bunny named Frank. Frank, it seems, isn't a bad fella - he leads Donnie away from his home one night - one in a series of sleepwalking adventures - only to return and find that a jet engine has crashed into his bedroom.  Now, here comes the existentialism...well, sort of.His life is saved...for the time being. Frank informs Donnie that he has 28 days to live (it seems that fate has been fudged a bit, allowing Donnie to live in a tangent universe, a sort of "what if?" reality where he can break free of his quiet nowhere-man life and be a hero - of sorts), the "World" is going to end (more ponderous pseudo-philosophizing), and Donnie now had free creative license to wreak havoc wherever he wishes.His victims - the society that shunned him, the family that ignored him, Patrick Swayze - all take notice of the quiet little boy from Middlesex, Iowa...and realize this kid is just plain screwy. As his lashings-out increase, Donnie becomes more disturbed, and little bunny Frank becomes more fuzzy.Richard Kelly, the writer-director of Donnie Darko, must have had some wild, long nights in college, where he no doubt took philosophy...and got a D+. His disjointed script is directed with a smoothness, a gritty, neo-noir flair that is visually stunning, but carries a lackadaisical serendipity, and the story lags in mis-matched sub-plots, and tragic little ironies that concern a young man we learn very little of, and find that we don't care if his "World" ends at all, existentialism be darned.Jake Gyllenhaal, an indie-brat extraordinaire, carries on a false sense of bravado; his character Donnie is a tool, a pawn used by Frank's king to lash out on an undeserving world simply because Frank and Donnie both are kindred spirits - both of their lives were cut short by freak accidents - and if they have to suffer, we all shall suffer. And we do. In spades. Gyllenhaal mumbles and broods his way to the end, and into a neurotic romance with Gretchen Ross (Jena Malone), who finds herself attracted to the unshelled Donnie, and joins him in the havoc.In the two years that have followed since its initial release, "Donnie Darko" has earned a cult following, an undeserving one at that. It seems that if you make a movie featuring a despondent young man and have the film make very little sense to the few who are aware of symbolism and make no sense at all to the many who marveled at Donnie when he told that guy from "Dirty Dancing" that he is the "anti-christ", then you have cult-indie gold. Well, so be it. As long as Drew Barrymore shows up, it can't be all bad, right? Right...
I cant believe it. The first time that I watched Donnie Darko the original version I was amazed. It combined a great amount of scientific and philosophical speculation with a wonderful cast and great filming technique. The second time I watched it, I watched the directors cut and all I have to say is that they destroyed the movie. I understand that a directors cut is supposed to bring back scenes that were deleted for enthusiasts of the movie to enjoy but does it have to completely destroy the movie? I guess it doesn't help that I didn't realize I bought the directors cut but the pacing was so destroyed, and the movie seemed to draaaaaaaag on forever. If you are going to bring back scenes make sure they at least serve a purpose! And furthermore, what is with completely destroying the climax of the movie with all the screens and fireworks?? It was such a subtle, beautiful movie before they gunked it all up!


                
I've heard quite a few people comparing this film to the 'sixth sense', the 'usual suspects', 'Open your eyes' and the likes. What they have in common is (obviously) that the end changes the whole film and makes you understand it. I just think this doesn't work at all with Donnie Darko. The problem is that our interest has to be kept until the surprising end, and mine did certainly not bear with Donnie. it's just not enough to show a countdown to make me really interested in knowing what will happen at the end of it. I wouldn't say I hated the film, there were some good and very funny moments in it, but  not enough not to make me annoyed with it. Also, I felt it lacked to comment on the things it was depicting. The American-High School-Not So Feel Good-Setting with the contrast between the two teachers was not developed at all, and at some points during the film I just thought I might not have been getting it because of cultural differences (but I was assured by some American friends that that's not the case:-)) All in all, I think it's VERY overrated. Not a bad film, but why the hype???


                
Sometimes the buzz is wrong. Really goddamned wrong. So wrong you walk out of the theater in disbelief that the movie ever got made in the first place.Cloaking itself in some social satire against the easiest targets possible, the movie shifts clumsily in tone from horror to teen comedy to family drama. Pop culture references from the '80s--the smurfs, hungry hungry hippos, etc.--pepper the film, largely out of an attempt to capture the decade through products rather than through a compelling or sensical plot.The end makes little to no sense and is made worse by a severely inept soundtrack decision. Executive producer Drew Barrymore has a small role as a rebellious teacher at the high school. This is about as fitting as anthony hopkins as jabba the hut. You'll laugh a couple times, cringe a helluva lot and taste bile at the schlock end.


                
The movie is clearly a vehicle for young actors to show their stuff to industry insiders. Like an extended audition, the plot is unnecessary, the continuity irrelevant and the ending is only needed to let people know the audition is over and they can leave. At least the crew got some work, made a little money, kept the economy afloat for a while. So much of what is churned out by Hollywood is simply make-work for people, a way to keep money changing hands back and forth, create a void where money can be siphoned off without the tax-man knowing about it. This movie is a prime example of that. If you're looking for some redeeming value in this turkey, skip it unless you're in 9th grade and like to make faces at people in the school hallways.


                
This movie tries too hard to be a lot of things - black comedy, parody, social commentary - but it fails miserably on all accounts. Bad acting (Jake's "acting" consists mainly of him making weird faces), lousy script, boring storyline. Yeah, it's pretty weird, but that doesn't make it good.I had to force myself to keep watching this disaster. Which is something, because I can usually sit through almost anything, but this really is that bad. It did not make me think, did not make make contemplate my existence, it didn't even make me think about what I wanted to eat for dinner. This movie isn't nearly as intelligent or complex as people are making it out to be.I do recommend you see it though. If nothing else, it'll prove to you how strange people can be...I'm not talking about the characters in the movie, but those who voted this into the Top 200. What is that all about???I can't believe this is rated higher than The Graduate and The Deer Hunter...seriously, that's absolutely ridiculous.


                
I couldn't think of a better summary to give for this movie other than the simple fact that I didn't particularly find it good. I saw this movie a month ago. I thought I would check out the rating on IMDb and to be honest I am not surprised that this movie is rated 8.4. I expected that people would find some way to justify that this movie is entertaining. The mere fact that fans of Donnie Darko do not understand the movie, nor able explain much of it gives them the sense that they need to enjoy it.Aside from the plot holes, flash forwards/back/sideways, attempt at philosophical references, and "make your own interpretation" this movie did have a good soundtrack. I found the acting to be well given the fact that the actors probably had no idea what this movie was about. This is the only reason I gave it a 3 over a 1.*SPOILER* I usually like time travel movies and am a big fan of sci-fi, but this movie makes no attempt in letting the viewer understand the movie whatsoever. Donnie Darko fans take pride in its mindless story and its confusing ending. It's obvious the writer and director are aiming at self interpretation of the viewer and leaving them to wonder why they spent the last two hours watching this movie when they could have been cutting their toenails. Never have I seen a more overrated movie.Watch at your own risk and be warned, Donnie Darko is purely a cult flick. Don't feel betrayed (as I did) and consider the high ratings this movie has on IMDb. You'll be ready to throw the DVD across the room in an attempt to shatter it. And whatever you do, do not buy this movie before watching it.
A highly rated movie with rave reviews? How could I resist? The first three quarters of the movie are interesting, an exploration of mental illness, blurring lines between imagination and reality and interesting camera shots that I thought illustrated the workings of a mind of a schizophrenic.How very wrong I was.The last quarter of the movie answers a number of questions, and opens up several new ones that you can't understand if you watched a movie. Literarily. You need the DVD commentary and the web site and an imaginary book to understand what happened. After you read through those (the web site includes much of the imaginary book, but it requires you figure out different passwords), you find out the plot is actually on the level of one of the particularly poor Star trek episodes. The mental illness a red herring and the interesting camera shots were ... just that. Interesting camera shots. Not intended to show anything at all, apparently, since all the vital points are in the material that comes with the movie, and so pathetic you're better off not knowing them at all.Overall I find the movie extremely overrated. I gave it a 2 because if your house caught fire half an hour before it ended and you'd never go back to see the ending and figure out the plot line, you'd be left with an impression of a masterpiece.


                
what a waste of time.  is this what passes for creativity and intelligent writing these days?  a schoolage donnie darko telling off a one-dimensional self-help guru?  yawn. i was acutely uncomfortable in the cinema and was close to abandoning the friends who dragged me there.


                
This is one of the worst pieces of cinema crap to come out of the U.S. in some time and it took me just 5 min. to notice. All you got to do is watch Donnie's family. To give you an idea, imagine the AB Burnhams but with Lester having married Ricky's mother instead of Carolyn and having become like her. Say, what kind of a father sits, laughing meekly while his kids ping-pong F.U.s all over the diner table? What kind, when his wife tells him that their son just called her a bitch, just shrugs his shoulders: "You're not a bitch but now you're bitching". So, you see it: the writing is amongst the worst you'll ever see, from beginning to end. As for the characters, they are the lamest, shallowest ever, starting with same father; most of them just cardboard cuts. The acting goes from so-so to putrid--with special mention to said father--but you can't really blame the actors; the cinematography is ordinary. Now, a movie is in deep trouble when, already in the beginning, the filmmaker, realizing he got nothing to say or show, proceeds to pad the clunker with assorted dialog; with inane, out of place, political references; with meaningless visual gimmicks--such as people suddenly jumping into fast motion mode when walking in corridors, for no reason at all. And what about the subplot of the Asian girl, what was its meaning? Was it that ethnics have feelings too? Was it that fat people are beautiful? Whatever message they tried to convey there it was lost, as the only way said girl is able to relate to others is by shouting "Chut up!" Putrid script, bad directing.If AB works so well it is simply because its characters are perfectly defined; crafted all with strong personal features, from the very beginning, and so they interact with each other in cohesive, unequivocal fashion, all which give the movie a solid structure, a clear direction—so much so that that for itself is enough to carry the whole movie for almost an hour. No such luck with this dog. Characters here are dispersed all over, lost in a desert, walking in random circles, with no purpose at all. See for ex. how flimsy Donnie's connection with his sisters is; you may even say there's none at all. They just happen to live under the same roof. And see how the parents' couple works--rather doesn't. There's no tension there, no complicity, no intimacy whatsoever; that couple is just as phony & contrived as the rest in the movie. Donnie's family is obviously not one, by any means, but just strange, unrelated people who were picked one by one, in different places, and brought to this table. There's no structure or cohesion in their group; no consistency in their chats, no common thread, no follows up. That's not a real family, just members of the "Hear What Random Thought Just Crossed My Mind" Club in one of their meetings. And you can say the same of the school teachers, the students, even of Donnie's romantic couple.DD contaminates everything it touches, it makes it shallow, puerile. It may contain also a record number of dumb lines: Ex., when teacher Barrymore tells an attractive new student to sit next to the boy she finds the cutest--sure, teachers love nothing more than creating causes for distraction in their classes! (BD's teacher is supposed to act daring, innovative, but it only manages to appear dumb & clueless: she challenges every authority in school and then...she's shocked when getting fired!). Or when Donnie's dad advises him to say F.U. to anyone who annoys him--exactly what all fathers advice their sons to do, to succeed in life. Then, I imagine, when kids coming of age reunite, they talk of their traumas, hopes, dreams; but here what they do? They talk of the sex life of Smurfs!...while laughing at a poor senile old woman (And what about that masturbating mental patient?).The worst thing about DD is that it glorifies mental illness. See, the only ones here having even limited access to the mechanisms of Time, Life, are a senile old lady and a psychotic kid. The rest, what we fools call "normal people"--teachers & parents--are dumb, clueless. This twisted idea is presented in a most grotesque, manipulative, way in the Donnie/Mrs. Farmer exchange on Love vs. Fear. What's so insidious is the fact that it's the borderline psychotic the one presenting the voices of reason; a scheme repeated later in relation to Swayze's overacted preacher. See how while Donnie presents a reasonable, logical POV, "normals" in the audience appear lost, clueless. It's impossible to find a more cynical way of presenting mental illness under a positive light.But on a pure cinematographic way the worst manipulative feature of DD is the gratuitous inclusion of cartoon villains who will do terrible things with the only purpose of making the hero look good. That's their only use here; and the best way for us of recognizing putrid writing. The obvious ones are Mrs. Farmer and Donnie's Nemesis amongst the students: a cartoon bad villain who'll randomly jump out of nowhere, when we least expect, for no reason at all, just to show us he's the villain and Donnie the hero. The best metaphor for a flick that comes out of nowhere and there it goes back, a zero.
This is seriously one of the worst movie i've ever seen, and i cannot understand why it is in the top 100 movie list of all time! I see most people appreciate the strange events, the misterious things that happen, the sense of mistery... but this is a B-movie, very badly written and acted, there are so many plot holes, and so on. Don't watch this movie :) 2/10


                
How can Donnie Darko beat out Blade Runner in the scifi category? It is BARELY even a scifi at all. Listen to the director's commentary if you want to find out what the film is really about, as he explains each scene you can hear how that scene failed to deliver - thus needing it to be explained. The movie is watchable and filmed well but fails to deliver what it was really trying to - and that according to the directors own commentary. Although a 5 [1-10] on the watch-ability and production values, I gave it a 1 to correct the curve from fake reviews I am sure many of the votes and posts with glorious reviews are merely marketing plants, and that, sadly, really skews the ratings here at IMDb. Also checkout how Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is #4 for all time best scifi? Even beating the Matrix? Anyone else notice this trend? I bet they hired a temp to sit around logging in fake email addresses and short 4 line raving reviews.


                
An average, but long winded, OUTER LIMITS episode laced with modern four-letter words.Those who sat in awe watching FORREST GUMP, did not see NO TIME FOR SARGENTS nor were viewers of GOMER PYLE, USMC.  Those who fell out of their chairs at the end of THE SIXTH SENSE, were never fans of THE TWILIGHT ZONE series. And likewise, those who claim that DONNIE DARKO is a never-before-seen breakthrough motion picture event, have probably never heard of David Lynch's ERASERHEAD.As the ol' saying goes, a fun soundtrack and excellent production values do not always a good movie make.  DONNIE DARKO has fine actors (although they are too old to be in high school) and nice special effects.  However, the screenplay and pacing have the feel of a grad student final film project.
DONNIE DARKO honors David Lynch and Rod Serling.  But after realizing this truth, the viewer is left thinking -- been there, done that.


                
An average, but long winded, OUTER LIMITS episode brimming with modern four-letter words.Those who sat in awe watching FORREST GUMP, did not see NO TIME FOR SARGENTS nor were viewers of GOMER PYLE, USMC.  Those who fell out of their chairs at the end of THE SIXTH SENSE, were never fans of THE TWILIGHT ZONE series. And likewise, those who claim that DONNIE DARKO is a never-before-seen breakthrough motion picture event, have probably never heard of David Lynch's ERASERHEAD.As the ol' saying goes, a fun soundtrack and excellent production values do not always a good movie make.  DONNIE DARKO has fine actors (although they are too old to be in high school) and nice special effects.  However, the screenplay and pacing have the feel of a grad student final project.
DONNIE DARKO honors David Lynch and Rod Serling.  But after realizing this truth, the viewer is left thinking -- been there, done that.


                
This movie was almost unbearable. Jake Gyllenhaal's performance was pathetic. I don't know if the director made him make those weird faces throughout the movie but at times I just wanted to slap Gyllenhaal. Drew Barrymore playing a teacher when she is unable to string together a coherent sentence just seemed phony and forced. The movie tries too hard to be creative but ends up feeling sloppy and emo. I had to force myself to watch the entire film. I don't understand how people like this emo film and Gyllenhaal's boring performance. The soundtrack is sloppy, the editing is sloppy, the movie is a mess. I have lost faith in IMDb reviewers because I'd rather watch a predictable Michael Bay Film rather than an emo Jake Gyllenhall making weird faces in this garbage plot.


                
Red was my face when i saw this movie for the first & the last time.Not at all a good movie.Whats the point of this movie.We all have dreams,everyone dreams.So what?can everything happen in a dream.I don't know man,from sci-fi point of view this is decent but from a plot wise & the perfect ending types this is not up-to the level.Jake Gyllenhaal(Donnie) performs a decent role.But i guess his role in Brokeback Mountain was his best.And then whats that demon rabbit?Why does Jake has to listen to him?I don't know.this is a total crap movie.For the critics this is a major let down,also for me when i see guys giving it 10/10.This isn't worth it.The ending is too way abrupt.The middle portion of the movie is too weak with dangling story thoughts.I cannot recommend this to anyone.You can watch it once but i am sure you wont want to see it again.Totally over-hyped.Major let down.


                
