Sweets. They are not nourishing, but they're delicious.This is how I feel about this film. If I make a conscious attempt at explaining why I like "Donnie Darko", I can see no real meat in it. I got no lessons from the flick, I hardly got a story... Forget what others say about this movie as "philosophical", "clever" or "trascendent". It's not. But, my!, how such a young director almost manages to make you believe it is... I don't know about you, but I call that talent.Yes, the movie is empty. The story goes nowhere, there is no message, no moral, but the way it's all wrapped up keeps you salivating throughout. Don't think it's mere flashy fireworks, though. This is not a case of style over substance. It's something more complex, and that's where "Donnie Darko" distances from the rest. This movie is freaking special, is full of personality. I wish more films had this character. The charm of this film relies on a lot of pieces that fit like a giant puzzle: -Chosen time (1988) is strangely proper (you'll have to see this movie to understand it, sorry).-The movie is BLUE. Its photography is blue, its characters are blue, its story is blue. Everything is blue.-Music is great.-Emotions are overwhelming. They come from everywhere and at the same time. You don't know what's happening, but what might be happening actually affects you.-I can see some Lynch influences. The scene where the gym teacher talks to Donnie's mother at the doorstep is 100% Lynch.-Some scenes are, almost, scary.-This is one of the movies that present the idea of "beyond" in a most seductive way. You feel there's something more than this world. It never gets explained, but heck, I don't care.-Finally, and most important, the main appeal of the movie is that it throws together unrelated concepts in such a way that they feel ghostly linked. The movie is a melting pot of vague ideas, that, thanks to a great direction, get connected in the subconscious.Exactly because of this, I understand this movie has so much appeal for some people, and so little for others. If you fall in the trap, it will touch you, and this movie could mean the world to you. If you don't, it won't, and you won't see more than a bag of tricks. Whatever the category you fall in, you have to recognize the skill of Richard Kelly. The execution of "Donnie Darko" is more than remarkable.I like to think of "Donnie Darko" not as a movie, but as a niche some people feel comfortably unsafe inside, that people being 25-30 year olds with an affection for sci-fi and darkness. The more you fit in this role, the more you'll get into this.RATING: 8.3


                
*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Donnie Darko is a sullen, anti-social teenager. He's in therapy and on medication. He is plagued with visions of death, doomsday predictions and giant talking rabbits. Just like most kids from the 80's. As the New Wave soundtrack blasts in our ears, Darko tries to make sense of it all. Is he a paranoid schizophrenic? Is he a visionary? Will he build a Delorean and go back to the future? Is he just plain nuts?"Donnie Darko" is very interesting. I think you would have to be a child of the 80's, (which I am), to fully appreciate it. Was the director Donnie Darko back in his teenage years? Did he know a Donnie Darko? This story feels immensely personal. Was he a confused teenager too? It's got Tears for Fears on the soundtrack and "Evil Dead" showing in the movie theater. Time Travel is an important element of this flick. I felt like I had tripped through a wormhole back to private school with Darko."Donnie Darko" is, for the most part, a mystery. Why is Darko being sent all these orders from the Fuzzy Bunny man? Who is Scary Cottontail? What the heck does it all mean? Well, here are my thoughts:*SPOILER ON ENDING* *DO NOT READ ANY MORE IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE**LAST CHANCE TO STOP READING*Still with me? OK. Darko is a screwed up teenager. A bright teenager but screwed up. The smart ones know too much for their own good. They get sad pretty easily since they can't see the world as simply as others. "Fear or Love"?  So throughout the flick, Darko sees a guy in a rabbit suit telling him to do violently anti-social things. So we start to write these visions off as delusions from a warped mind. But then the concept of time travel is introduced. Could the rabbit be from Darko's future? Is he trying to help him or hurt him? This is (obviously) the mystery to solve.Darko thinks he knows the exact time he is going to die. The rabbit told him so. Darko is either insane or knows a smart bunny. When Darko has a life or death choice to make, he chooses life. Not his life but everyone else's. When he makes his final choice and jumps through his wormhole, he lands back in his bedroom. He's seen smiling and laughing in his bed. This was the first sign of happiness (relief?) Darko had shown during the entire movie. Maybe Darko wasn't so dark after all.  He did some bad bunny things but at the end of his road, he made the right decision.I can't recall a movie in which a song so perfectly conveyed the meaning of a scene. The song "Mad World" plays over the end of the movie. It explains it all. It's Darko's theme song:"And I find it kind of funny,I find it kind of sad,The dreams in which I'm dyingare the best I've ever had."
I don't know what to type. Honestly. This is just one of those movies you have to see for yourself.Its also one of those movies that to fully get it, you have to see it more than once. Its a brilliant film, but a bit confusing.Well, the plot may sound stupid, and if it hadn't been as brilliantly executed, it probably would have been. But its brilliant. I am going to attempt to explain it. Here goes...A giant rabbit (no kidding) comes to proclaim the end of the world (no kidding) to troubled teenager Donnie Darko. Then, an aeroplane engine crashes into his bedroom while the rabbit is proclaiming the end of the world. (no kidding. Donnie then is able to see peoples 'paths', (represented as a long tube in front of the person, showing where they are going to go next) and is able to deny his own path. Confusing eh? This is a movie I can't explain any more. The rest has to be seen for yourself. Don't go in expecting a fully blown horror movie or any type of film with a straightforward, easy to understand plot. Because this film is really deep. Thought provoking, captivating, mesmerising and moving, this is a work of genius. This isn't the sort of film you can just watch casually though. You have been warned....


                
In my opinion there are two types of writing. Controlled Writing where the superego controls the pen. The other is where the imagination (the id) takes over. This was id writing. Uncontrolled, wild and chaotic.In many instances this type of writing doesn't work - its energetic and vibrant, but without focus it just winds up a mess.This film makes it work however for the following reasons.This is the tale of a young man, a 'coming of age' story, and the story of most young men are tinged with wildness and chaos. Thus the premise and themes fit perfectly with the wildly imaginative way in which the story was told.It speaks to young men in the way a good 'coming of age' story is meant to. Its rare, I can only think of a few films that do it well: Good will hunting, fight club, star wars and now donnie darko. I'm in my mid 20s and looking back, the fear, distress and sheer confusion of teenage life is always a brilliantly painful experience. But this distress (the movie fight club refers to it as the "great depression") is incredibly heightened in this film due to the sense of impending doom that Donnie feels throughout. Thus i ask you :Is this not the way all of us were feeling post 9/11 ?Its timing was perfect. A simple message powerfully expressed to me is the height of great writing. Everyone understands a simple point and everyone (no matter their education/literacy) can be moved by it.Now here are the Cons:OK so he stole the rabbit from alice in wonderland/the matrix and the time travel discussion is pretty juvenile, but then what talk amongst teenagers isn't? If they spoke like college professorsa) the characters don't seem like realistic teensb) you lose your target audienceThe director's cut honestly sucked major ass. It showed that the director is a little clueless about effective ways of film-making. they took out some of the great songs that made the original really gel and replaced them with a classical score in parts that clearly didn't work. Also some weird kiddy kaleidoscope images were thrown in that were a fake ass attempt to look like the closing images of 2001 a space odyssey. The directors cut was a travesty that should not have been allowed. An obvious attempt to make some quick cash based on this film being a huge hit at the video rentals arena (it didn't do any business on the screen 1st time around). I think the directors cut version should be burned.But hes still young and allowed to make mistakes. As are we all. I'm looking forward to his future work. This film may be a "one hit wonder", or it might not. But no pun intended - only time will tell.


                
First, I want to know how a Drew Barrymore movie got past me. This is a very deep, intellectual demonstration of the inner workings of the human mind and imagination. This is a very good rendition of what happens to the gifted young who are not taught to keep their light hidden from the 'straights.' From time to time, one like Donnie Darko emerges from the primordial cesspool that is our genetic makeup; one who can see, hear and know of when's and where's which are not this reality.Children like him are invariably medicated and caged...or worse.While this is not the only movie to speak of children of this kind (Powder, Warlock 2, Firestarter, The Sixth Sense, and yes, even Harry Potter on some level), this has to be one of the most creative twists to this vein I've ever seen. This story is simply astounding.This movie shows the human condition within our society. Why people sometimes make the really bad choices. How sometimes that "thing" in your head doesn't go off and scream "BAD FREAKING IDEA!" Why suicide sometimes occurs. Why sometimes a person would stop fighting for a better life and just...surrender to the one that is.It also shows that by going back to undo the bad things in our lives, we will also undo the good, leave those who loved us feeling empty and alone, and somehow miss out on this reality and hopes of something better in the face of insurmountable odds.I won't spoil this by telling the end. But wow...if this does not leave you feeling "disturbed," nothing will. This is every bit as quirky and darkly startling as "May." That's all I can say, except that this was one of the best movies of this kind I have ever seen.On the B scale (which you don't notice, by the way), it rates a 9.1/10.On the A scale, it rates a 7.7/10 from...the Fiend :.
Forget about what Richard Kelly says about the "Philosophy of Time Travel", and Donnie as a "Living Receiver" whose duty it is to close the "Tangential Universe" and save the world. The movie is about satisfying a restless soul's desire for justice and redemption. It's about Frank. In the future he runs over Gretchen, probably due to alcohol and careless driving. He is tormented by his crime, and his soul, upon the opening of the time portal (caused by his own tormented soul?), goes back to seek justice. Although, one could imagine him going back to prevent the accident, that would not assuage his need for justice. He seeks to use Donnie to carry out his own execution. Why does he pick Donnie? Perhaps Donnie, in that previous future, was Gretchen's boyfriend, maybe even at the scene of the accident sans gun. Perhaps Donnie's house just happened to be where Frank's soul and the airplane engine ended up as the wormhole opened up in the past, requiring Frank to rescue him. One could imagine Frank's soul forever looping from the future to the past, each time having to ensure that his own execution would take place. His quest for justice extends to the crime of the Swayze character. But each time thru the time loop, things change, and on this last time thru, Darko finally understands Frank's torment, seeing himself, not as the tool of justice but the cause of injustice, leading Gretchen to her death. In the end, he understands time travel and achieves what Frank achieved, having his soul pass thru the wormhole. Upon arriving back in the past he stays in his room to be killed by the engine. Thru his death, Gretchen maybe lives, Frank never kills her, and is no longer doomed to repeat his passes thru the time loop. If it was Frank's guilt that originally opened the wormhole, then Darko, by allowing himself to die, saves the world.This is only my interpretation. Most stories are about personal crimes and the search for redemption and/or justice. Why would this movie be any different?
I have never been a huge fan of "Donnie Darko" as a science fiction story, which is how it was intended by writer/director Richard Kelly. The vague storytelling masks the gaps in logic and the budgetary constraints that did not allow them to show things more convincingly (also Kelly needed more experience before he tackled a project of this scope). However, fans have embraced this failing as the film's strength and have used the open-ended structure to mold the thing into something that fits their own individual agendas.By now most everyone knows that early in the film the world diverges into a tangent universe, a situation that must be remedied in 28 days or the normal universe will end. Donnie has been selected by some undisclosed guardian to bring the tangent and primary universes back into alignment. He is given some superhuman powers for this task but only a few clues about what must be done. Searching for answers (mostly about time travel) during the day and performing sleepwalking pranks by night (an inefficient way to bring about certain vaguely tangential events), he semi-cluelessly moves forward toward the deadline. At last he figures out that he must send an "artifact" (a jet engine) back from the tangent universe to the normal universe. He seemingly knows that doing so will result in his death in the normal universe but he selflessly performs the task and restores things to a stable balance.This is not as silly and contrived as it sounds but it does have some major issues that must be ignored if one is to really embrace the film. It also lacks useful philosophical depth and is just a teen movie with some intriguing thoughts about time travel.But "Donnie Darko" becomes extraordinary when viewed instead as an allegorical story about free will versus destiny. It is basically a twisted remake of Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life", with Donnie a 1988 version of George Bailey and Frank his guardian angel. Instead of being given a chance to see what the world would be like if he had not been born, Donnie is given the chance to see how his continued existence would alter events. For George Bailey the experience was full of positive revelations, for Donnie it is the opposite.To go with this unintended interpretation you just dismiss the whole thing about tangent universes. Instead Donnie dies at the beginning of the story by a random event (a jet engine falls off a plane passing over his house)over which he has no control. Since he is not essential to the event, he is given a chance to experience an additional 28 days of life to see the effects of his remaining alive and then choose between the two alternate futures. But he is also given the ability to actually see the force fields that draw everyone toward their destinies and finds himself powerless to resist such manipulation. Ultimately he makes his first "free choice" and elects his original death."Heathers" was a major influence on Kelly and "Donnie Darko" has that same sedated tone, with characters generally under-reacting to absurdly extreme developments. As in that film parents are not the problem, rather it is kids being incredibly (but believably) cruel to each other.The cast is solid although avoiding Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze is normally a good idea. Jake Gyllenhaal is excellent and it is nice that his actual sister Maggie plays his film sister. Unfortunately both Maggie and Jena Malone are wasted in unchallenging roles with minimal screen time.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.


                
Donnie Darko is no movie. It's an experience that transcends anything you have ever felt in front of a screen. Once it's over, you won't stop thinking about it. The music will stay in your head, the ideas will keep you awake, and the characters will stay alive. This is everything a movie should movie. No one should miss this. Though there are flaws, the incredible crafting of the film will distract you from them. Go see it.Jake Gylenhall and Patrick Swayze are brilliant. Richard Kelly may have screwed himself with this. Why? Because this is probably the greatest movie he will ever make. If not, Kelly, you are my new favorite filmmaker. Love,Gerald (wink)


                
The way I see it, the whole film develops thru the last few seconds of poor Donnies life. About 5 minutes in the film he is lying in bed, nothing but bad relationships, nothing but a bad history and the last word he utters to his mum is "bitch".However, after the argument with his mother he takes his medicine, which stops him from walking around at night he sleeps like a baby in bed.Then he is killed by a fallen object. And in the pico seconds before he dies he invents the rest of the movie - a good relationship with his family - he even chuckles and have a drink with his father agreeing that everybody else are bastards (something that would never happen in Donnie Real Life) - and all in all, the whole world focuses in on Donnie just before he dies. This way, his sorry little life can end with a feeling that he is giving life to other people. If he Don't die, other people will, so really he is pure chivalry.Well, just my 50 cents, i gotta know if anybody else had the same experience? Great film - uh ! Frederik Oh by the way, I have never seen a Directors Cut which was better than the original. Dunno why.
Saw it for the first time last night and I have to say I was impressed. Richard Kelley does an astonishing job for his first film, I look forward to seeing more of his movies in the future. 'Donnie Darko' is a film filled to the brim with such intriguing ideas, original plot turns, extraordinary visuals and riveting acting. Jake Gyllenhaal is outstanding in the lead, and the ensemble cast consisting of a humorous Patrick Swayze, a surprisingly solid Drew Barrymore and an always remarkable Jena Malone is first-rate. The only part that confused me was the ending. I'm not saying it was bad, it was just very unclear. I've been told if I watch the movie again a couple of times I'll have a better understanding of it. I recommend this to anyone who appreciates innovative film-making. Grade: B+


                
this movie, and its' plot, can be much simpler (and full of sense) than most seem to imagine. and if it has a perfect sense, a good explanation, and a reason behind all the plot, than I believe it cannot be other than as follows: in the end, Donnie chooses to die (that is obvious). why? because, if not, the whole "path" presented to him (and to us) would lead to much worse (death, of his girl, of his mother and little sister, of frank). there are also some good parts that come along that path (I choose the word "path", but it could be called any other way - variant, alternative etc.), as, for example, the exposure of the child pornographer, and even the short love story between Donnie and the girl). but, obviously, the "goods" do not even closely match the "wrongs". so, Donnie chooses consciously what everyone else with a conscience would, meaning his death instead of all the wrong things that would come on the alternative he is presented with. and his choice is not an anomaly in itself, that's what the movie is trying to say. for that, the key lies in the short talk between Donnie and his physics teacher, when he says that changing the future is not wrong, as long as it is still on God's way (I can't remember the exact quote, but I recall that was the meaning). the rest, the "time travel" philosophy is of course unconvincing from a scientific point of view, but that does not necessarily count, as it can be seen as only a metaphor. and, also, "the world coming to an end" does not have to mean "the whole world", but maybe Donnie's world. he saves his world through personal sacrifice. that is of course not scientifically possible, and there remain lots of unexplained questions about how it is possible, but I must repeat that this is not the point, that a perfectly logical explanation is not necessary in art, or else we should renounce on every metaphoric form of expression.
It is interesting to look at some recent films by young filmmakers. Robert Rodriguez did "El Mariachi." Luc Besson did "The Fifth Element." M. Night did "Sixth Sense" and "Unbreakable." And now, 25 and two years out of So. Cal. Richard Kelly did "Donnie Darko". All of them both wrote and directed. "Darko" was done on a very small $4million budget with cheap or free actors. It is true what they say about growing older, we lose our imagination, our ability to think like children, without boundaries. "Donnie Darko" is without artificial boundaries, is a work of great inspiration. However it is not easy to view and understand on its own. Watching the film twice on DVD, the second time with director commentary, is practically essential. I did just that and this is a film that will stick with me for a long time. 
SPOILERS - This is pure Sci-Fi, playing on the concept that time-travel is possible through a wormhole if conditions are just right. At midnight on October 2, 1988 such a thing happens, a break in the space/time continuum, and the consequences threaten the very future existence of the universe in 28 days plus a few hours. Through Devine Intervention, "Frank" is chosen to be Donnie's guide, disguised as a six-foot rabbit, and Donnie is chosen to be the super hero that will figure out how to put things right and save the universe. So Frank first has to save Donnie from the time-traveling jet engine that is about to fall into his bed, so goes to Donnie in a dream and has him go out onto the golf course. Donnie's family and many friends think he is mentally disturbed, he sees a shrink, but the medicine she prescribes are just placebos. There isn't anything wrong with him, he is just ultra-aware and very intelligent. In his waking hours he senses that he has a mission, and must piece together clues provided by Frank and others. Everyone is manipulated in this parallel universe gone off kilter, to provide situations which will lead to Donnie's correcting things. The flooding of the school. The burning of the house. The shooting of Frank in the right eye. The running over of Gretchen. Everyone, teachers, students, family, strangers, all act in small strange ways, consistent with a universe being slightly off kilter.In the final act Donnie figures out how to build a portal and pull the engine off his mom's return flight. We are not shown all the ways he does this, but when he does, time reverses for those 28 days, back to midnight October 2. Gretchen and Frank are alive again, the house has not burned, the teacher was not fired, the "proper" universe has been restored and the parallel universe non-existent. But the jet engine still falls at midnight, Donnie is in his bed. He has sacraficed his own life for everyone else, saving the whole world.This is Science Fiction. Donnie Darko is a comic book name. The writing, acting, and filmography are all first-rate. The director's commentary reveals a maturity way beyond his age of 26 or so when the commentary was recorded. My only complaint about the film is that it is bit too vague, and most audiences will not be able to appreciate its full intent without listening to the director's commentary. That's why I rate it "8" of 10, but could very easily have been a "9".
Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a paranoid schizophrenic anti-social teenager having therapy with Dr. Lilian Thurman (Katharine Ross) and using medication. He has visions of a giant rabbit, Frank, the Fuzzy Bunny, who instructs him to make violent acts, like destroying the fire hydrant and piping to flood his high-school like in Graham Greene's book, which text was read in his English class, or burning to the ground the house of the hypocrite Jim Cunningham (Patrick Swayze). Donnie is not at home when an engine turbine falls of a plane into his bedroom without any explanation. He predicts the doomsday and is very interested in time travel through the wormhole."Donnie Darko" is one of the weirdest cult movies ever. Richard Kelly follows the same school of David Lynch, making a very intriguing movie with the usual elements of this director, such as in "The Lost Highway", using characters very bizarre and dark. The story is confusing and quite nonsense but holds the attention until the very end, with great cast and performances. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Donnie Darko"Note: On 16 November 2014, I saw this movie again.


                
I've read more than a handful of reviews here on IMDb for this film, and it's interesting to see so many different interpretations, many that conflict with each other, but still making sense in their own way. I have to admit, I missed a lot of the picture's nuance watching it for the first time, so returned to it a day later to view it once more. One has to accept the time travel premise for the story to work because of the way Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) rewinds things all the way back to the day of the jet engine crash. What's a lot more complex are all the in-between steps that take place showing how Donnie connects with Frank Bunny and the way in which he deals with his paranoid schizophrenia.I don't pretend to 'get' everything that went on in the story and I don't know if multiple repeat viewings would help clear things up. I think more exposure would only lead to more theories about what was going on in the mind of writer and first time director Richard Kelly when he put this movie together. There's some conjecture that Donnie was attempting to find a way to prevent the end of the world from taking place, but if you think about it, Frank's warning was essentially true for Donnie - his 'world' came to an end when he returned to his room near the end of the story.There's something I'd like to mention in connection with the transparent, watery, balloon-like vision Donnie had emanating from people in his immediate orbit and from himself as well. Mystics and healers speak of a 'silver cord' that connects one's spirit to the physical body when one dreams or experiences astral projection. It's to keep a person's spirit safe on it's journey while separate from the body. That idea didn't come across in Donnie's experience so I wonder if that was something on Kelly's mind when he came up with the concept.Over all I'm not quite sure what to make of this movie. Though it's kind of bizarre, I did like it enough to pursue it a second time and in due course I'll probably want to catch it a few more times. Some movies just manage to get under your skin and for me, this was one of them. My viewing of the film was of the original theatrical version, stated by some viewers here that it's the preferred one versus the director's cut. It couldn't hurt to try the alternate one down the road.
When a movie sets an off beat tone like this, the level of quality of the presentation makes it either a brilliant masterpiece or an incoherent mess. This one was expertly organized with generous doses of everything from sinister humor to philosophical and imaginative perceptions, and succeeds in becoming one of the masterpieces.This story is as rich as Fort Knox with symbolic metaphors, there's literally one at every moment of the film. You'll probably notice, in repeat viewings, new elements you hadn't noticed before. From blatant ones, such as Donnie's last name, to subtleties, such as who was on the plane when it lost its engine, they just keep on coming. The film will leave you considering its many meanings long after seeing it. Different people will take different messages from the story's many sub-plots; I suspect if you were to put 12 people in a room and have them write their interpretation of the film's meaning, you'd get 13 different responses. The well meaning motivations of Donnie and others that lead to destructive, rather than constructive, solutions is only one topic to analyze. How much of what we see is real or delusion? The acting is sensational; the entire cast become their respective roles, some of which are quirky and even bizarre. Jake Gyllenhall, is great in the title role, at times creepy, evil, heroic, psychotic, hypnotic, confused, introspective and so on. Just discussing his character alone can leave many opinions, I'll simply refer to him as an "anti-hero." What would seem at the outset as a film being weird just for the sake of being weird proves to be much more. This film could have been lazy and stereotyped one character to pick on, but it succeeds in rounding all its characters, their strong as well as weak points. A film well worth a viewing. Make that two, or three viewings.


                
I spent much time on Donnie Darko for almost 3 times read-through. The group's commentary track is kind of boring so I skipped some. Just like for Shining I couldn't stop seeing it time after time. Because I have a desire to search out what exactly horrified me. I think fear is one of the most precious human feelings. When people fear that's because he sees the truth that he never saw. Only those shallow-headed would try to smile all day and shout "I don't fear any more!" It also has a wonderful and pure British soundtrack that features some cool New Wave/Post Punk bands. Maybe the best entertainment film one could ever make when he has only four million dollars to spend in current times.


                
Donnie Darko is a great movie, i think its the type best enjoyed alone so you have no distractions and can become in a deeper & more questioning state of mind when watching it. I felt as though i related to Donnie throughout which is why i think i liked it so much, how it portrays you're average normal high student on a deep and alternative level, even if he doesn't dress particularly different than any other students, which is somewhat how i perceive myself.Can i say Donnie Darko has changed my life in any way?, i don't really know yet, i think i will need to watch it again to decide. But it did introduce me to one of my now favourite songs "Mad World" by Gary Jules, which fitted the movie perfectly, a better soundtrack couldn't have been chosen.


                
As humans, we're probably the only animal capable of contemplating our own mortality. Many say or think that, at the point of death, your whole life --- maybe only a part? -- flashes before your eyes. And who knows what you really see, anyway..? That's what this movie is all about: it provides a glimpse of what might have been going on inside Donnie's head in the brief few seconds before he dies when a 747 engine drops though the roof of his parents' house and lands on top of him. So, all that you see from the start of this movie until near the end is simply Donnie's (Jake Gyllenhaal) last thoughts for this earth. Very near the start of the story, Donnie has a vision, meeting a strange figure called Frank who tells him that his world is coming to an end. That's a clue that Donnie's dying but I didn't cotton onto that until much later in the plot...This narrative structure has been done at least once before that I know of: Jacob's Ladder (1990) had the story of a Vietnam soldier dying on an operating table. That story was again the soldier's weird thoughts before he succumbed to his wounds. If you haven't seen it, it is worth the time; but, it's quite a scary movie for some.I'd seen Gyllenhaal, for the first time, not so long ago in Jarhead (2005) a movie I didn't like but was much impressed by his acting. So, that's one of the reasons I saw this one: his intensity is once again at the forefront of all the characters in Donnie Darko.At another level, this movie is also partly about the American Dream and the lies that support it: there's the dream psychology coach Jim Cunningham (Patrick Swayze), and what a ham he is, and very cunning to boot because he's got a nasty, dirty little secret; there's the idealistic English teacher Karen Pomeroy (Drew Barrymore) who's trying to open the students' minds to the delights of language <U+0096> and gets more than she bargained for; there's the phys-ed coach Kitty Farmer (Beth Grant) who wants her girls to win a national dancing competition, and will stop at nothing to get it; there's school principal Cole (David Moreland) who wants nothing more than peace, quiet, and all the metaphorical garbage kept out of public view; and finally there's Donnie's family, (see cast list), jaded, all mixed up, almost brain dead, and resigned to la dolce vita, or what passes for that each good morning, America.As Donnie, we learn from the story what might have happened had he lived, and as the final tune and final scenes play, what still might happen. Those final scenes are out of kilter with the whole thrust of the story (much like Jacob's Ladder, where the viewer knows what happens after the soldier dies <U+0096> a narrative inconsistency) because Donnie's dead and the whole thing was his thoughts anyway. However, directors must cater for the viewer, tie up loose ends, and hope that nobody notices... But, heck, in a fantasy dressed up as science fiction, anything can happen, right? I really enjoyed this movie: good performances, snappy dialog, very effective cinematography, and quite funny in parts. Recommended.
Donnie Darko defies all laws of our regular universe (much like time travel?!). I think that the beauty the film, like any good piece of art lies in the fact that there isn't any 1 comprehensive interpretation of it. Yet, at the same time, I'd like to give my own. After reading some if the other reviews, I'd didn't quite agree with some of the stuff that was written. At one level, I think the movie understood as a critique of and rebellion against our narrow-minded (the school.. embodied in the 'fear and love' teacher) view of life (and this is where Drew Barrymore's character comes in). There's the 2 boys, who jump Donnie and his girlfriend, with knives in the end who fit the totally useless, wasted and disturbed archetype. But Donnie is not like them although he falls into many of the aforementioned categories. He's intelligent and yet can't cope with life, but for precisely that reason (he sees through all the facade's and bullshit that life has to offer - Cunningham). And that's where his schizophrenia comes from (I'm not talking medically but metaphorically). Now to come to the question that's on everyone's mind at the end of the film... If he dies at the end, then what is the whole film about? Is it a dream, hallucination..? But if he's dead then who's hallucinating and if he hallucinated all this before his death then isn't that a bit weird? I think the the film is supposed to through up these contradictory questions to make us break out of our 'conservative' views, confined to logic, rationality..... I don't think this is a Chrisopher Nolan type film in which you're supposed to try and tie up everything in the film in light of the end. It's not a 'jigsaw puzzle film'. Maybe the director just wanted to have some fun with the narrative and purposely added an illogical twist in the end...? The point is that, the questions here maybe more important than the answers... Now maybe I'm reading too much into the film but I feel this interpretation adds a very different flavour to the film. But however you may interpret the film, one has to agree that the camera work was amazing. As was the script and most importantly, the wide variety of characters. I haven't really thought about the film in very great detail so there are many important features that I must left out here. A film that should be seen twice (though i haven't yet) and most definitely, at least once!
As good as the movie is, the open-endedness left more to the imagination, which the director's cut attempts to over-elaborately explain. I understand that the director is probably just trying to respond to comments about how hard it was to understand, but his response shouldn't have been to dumb down the movie. I loved it exactly the way it was. For example, in the scene where Donnie puts a hatchet through the bronze mongrel, the original leaves the audience in a state of awe. The Director's cut, on the other hand attempts to explain it with a quick except from a text book which states that those who go back in time are given super-human strength. It completely kills the moment. Watch the original if you have a chance, if you don't then see this one.


                
I have read in many comments on this site that the whole idea of the movie is that Donnie has to send the artifact(the jet engine) back through the portal from the tangent world because having 2 identical artifacts in the tangent universe was making it unstable and going to cause the world to end. If so surely at the end of the movie when Donnie is in bed laughing in the real world and the engine comes through the roof and kills him there are now two identical artifacts(jet engines) in the real world now i.e. the one in his bedroom that came through the portal and the one on the plane somewhere else in the real world?? This makes no sense


                
Spoiler Alert! I am half on liking this movie, and half on really hating this movie.  So let me explain:Hate: I hate this movie because it is poorly explained.  It is a convoluted plot based on metaphysics and abnormal psychology.  Donnie is a schizoid and is loosing touch with reality, so be introduced to the bunny.  Well, this goes along with the poorly described bit, but the bunny is never really explained.  I found the bunny to be annoying.  I was praising that the death of the bunny would expedite itself quicker. Towards the end, I found myself also glad that Donnie was killed.  I told you this was the hate part of my review.Like: I like this movie because it is not your typical crap that Hollywood likes the throw out at conformist America (see T3 for example).   This movie is an emotional rollercoaster and does require a bit of intelligence to understand the plot.  This, however, is difficult because; starting a movie, going throw a fake dream, and ending up at the beginning of the movie doesn't evolve into a continuous and moving forward plot.  It is a mobius strip.  It ended were it started.I liked the fear component of the movie. I think fear is a limiting factor for a lot of people and basically tells me that humans are scared of being alone.  I did like this subplot about fear being the price of our instrument.I give this movie an 8/10 for being different and quasi-thought provoking.
This is not a big film. Small budget. Small box-office. Small actors. And it came out in the bad period, just after 9/11. To have some kind of a plane crash in that period was more than tentative, maybe even suicidal.But that's exactly why it is a great film. It can concentrate on a storyline that is stunning and a subject that is even more than stunning, flabbergasting. The storyline is determined by a simple prediction from Frank, the doppelganger of the main character, Donnie, who sees him in some kind of vision. The prediction on October 2, 1988, that the world will crash to its end in 28 days 6 hours 42 minutes 12 seconds, leads to the sum of these numbers which is 88. First circularity that you may not see if you do not have a pen, paper, and some number consciousness. And yet this 88 is 8 times 11. 8 is the second coming, the resurrection, the solution of a lethal and fatal problem, whereas 11 is precisely this final deadly event. We are thus predicted that beyond this apocalypse there will be a renaissance, renascence, resurrection, salvation.But of course, the main circularity is in the fact the film starts on October 2, 1988, and ends on November 1, 1988, at sunrise around 6 or 7 am. And the resurrection is the brutal shift from this catastrophe on this Halloween day back to October 2, 1988, and the very event we had at the beginning. The catastrophe on November 1 is a plane crash with Donnie's mother and younger sister along with the dancing team his younger sister is a member of, chaperoned by their mother, flying back from Los Angeles. The catastrophe on October 2 is the fact that this November 1 plane - or in fact an October 2 plane - loses a turbine that crashes on Donnie's home and kills him.From the beginning when Donnie survives the crash because he was out on the advice of his friend Frank, and the end when he is killed by the turbine because he was not out because no Frank had told him to get out, we have a whole series of events the way they happened, we assume, after the initial crash with Donnie alive. In this sequence, Donnie becomes aggressive, vindictive, but also seductive. He seduces a girl in his class. His parents have him examined by a psychoanalyst but that produces nothing. The story seen without knowing the end shows that around Donnie many would die, and many disruptive events would happen. His sole presence would lead to death and flood and fire. He sure is a schizophrenic killer, even by his own hand once.But when we consider the end, this period becomes a phantasm, a fantasy, a dream, a trip into the future on October 2 that leads Donnie to know that he has to die if he does not want to cause all sorts of painful events that would hurt other people. And sure enough, he dies. In his dying minutes, He was able to see the future if he did not die so that he decided that to die was the proper thing to do. This approach of time traveling is quite in agreement with H.G. Wells amplified by Simon Wells. You better not change what is going to happen by traveling into the past or the future because what would happen then would be worse and in the end, the same for the person concerned. It is better to die because a plane turbine falls on you than to end up on death row for a murder you would committ later, even though the murder would be in a way justified due to manipulation from a doppelganger.That makes the film interesting because of the strange ending (you can only see that film once) but it makes it also fascinating because of the simple philosophy of time travel: never oppose whatever you cannot block or change because if you did then the same end would occur in a different way and probably a lot more painfully for you. It is very pessimistic: you have to let a bloody dictator run through his own course because if you tried to get rid of him before his normal end it would be even worse if you succeeded. History has to go its own way and we are not supposed to interfere, to step on the samllest butterfly imaginable.That's what I would call submissive paranoid psychosis. Personally, I think the only acceptable solution would be for me to step out and down from such a life which would be simple survival disguising death into some robotic android living simulation. Note: never follow the advice of a moralistic sports coach or Phys. Ed. teacher. They are liars by definition.Dr. Jacques COULARDEAU
Although this movie involves the topic of time travel and has a bit of suspense, it is primarily a look at how teenagers can feel alone, confused or even despaired.It is a fantastic script which dwells on young Donnie Darko and how he deals with the hallucinations of a figure in a rabbit suit which causes him to commit crimes / wrongdoing and effectively work as an escape route for his troubles.But at the same time, it touches on many other sides of personal anguish - a fat kid who is bullied, a teacher who is frowned upon by teaching at more innovative curriculum, the pressure of getting into college, and I could go on.He shows how this people cope with these issues.
In Donnie's case, it was indeed by his relationship with this rabbit suit figure.It is a very interesting story, very well written and that will lead to debate for anyone watching.Gyllenhaal's performance is remarkable, specially considering his age at the time.


                
This movie is full of twist and turns that can become confusing to most people. It depicts the story of a high school kid that has a problem with seeing and they slowly become more and more realistic. The movie starts out very funny with Donnie and his older sister arguing at the dinner table while their family eats. They bicker back and forth and it becomes very funny with a few of the insults that they throw across the table at each other. After that the film slowly starts to take a turn to the more mysterious and frightening side of things. This movie is not in category of a horror film by any means, but as the film goes on there are more and more scenes that make you want to crawl under your seat. Is this due to Donnie and his family, or is it from his mental problems? There is a question that can only be answered by watching this hour and 53 min film, and trust me, it is worth every minute of it.
Personally I really enjoyed the movie. Although it became very confusing at some moments, it was all tied together by the end of the movie and made everything a lot better once I could connect the dots.As far as the structure of the film goes, I felt it was very well organized and all of the emotions that the director was going for. When they wanted the audience to laugh or become frightened and uncomfortable it was very clear and worked. The picture was very well done as well with great use of film technique such as the use of close ups, slow motion, parallel action, etc. It was all done beautifully to get the most out of every shot in this film. Overall I really enjoyed the movie and would definitely recommend it to a friend.


                
