I think the main theme of this film was summed up somewhere in the middle, where Donnie is speaking to  a not-so-helpful self-help guru and says something to the following effect:"Yes, I am scared and I am confused.  But I think you are the f**king antichrist!!!"In the end, _Donnie Darko_ is a film about people who feel life and all the emotions within it very deeply.  Donnie himself is a basically sweet-tempered (often courageous) young man who is pathologically terrified of loneliness and the thought of spiritual isolation.  His quest for meaning and self-discovery drives him to the fringes of our reality, which only serves to isolate him more from the world he loves.  The few who understand what Donnie is going through go largely unnoticed (such as his girlfriend Gretchen or a tragically overweight yet remarkable sensitive little girl) or unappreciated (such as Karen, the English teacher whose only sin is trying to show her students that there is no such thing as a true end.)Of course, this movie far from polarizes its characters (indeed, polarization is the last thing this film wants to accomplish) and the majority are just a mishmash of the beautiful and the grotesque: Donnie's parents, who are at the same time loving and perpetually confused; the aforementioned self-helper Jim Cunningham, who is desperate to spread the lie that keeps him sane to everybody else; and Donnie's sister, struggling between her identity as an adult and her identity as a child.  And then there's Frank.  All I can say here is that nothing can prepare you for or adequately describe Frank.Probably the best thing about this movie, though, is its incredible emotional range.  It manages to inspire hope, love, dread, laughter, and tears at different points throughout the movie without making you feel least bit like there is a contradiction between those states.  The scenes with Frank (especially the one that takes place in the therapist's office against the backdrop of a conversation about the end of the world) are quite frankly some of the scariest things I've ever seen in a movie, as they literally made my skin crawl.Finally, the performances in this film are exquisite.  The talent in this film is top notch and even Gyllenhall is just amazing.  That said, though, this film has a dismal future.  Combine the fact that the large majority of the moviegoing public is just going to find it unbearably weird with the fact that the movie begins with part of an airplane  crashing into a building (this has got to be the very definition of bad timing) and it's pretty clear that this film is going to stay underground.  However, if you are looking for a beautiful experience with a unique film, _Donnie Darko_ is just about as good as it gets.


                
Being an angst-ridden teenager has never been easy, especially when you can see what's down the road, and it looks a lot like the end of your world.Writer and Director Richard Kelly is an artist whose films I will anticipate and Jake Gyllenhaal is truly remarkable among a very rich cast. He plays a troubled young man with a brilliant intellect and a vast imagination, struggling with the boredom of standard education, and a society afraid of its own shadow (e.g. contemporary America). An imaginary friend, Frank - a seven foot tall metal-headed skull-faced demon-rabbit saves his life by removing him from the the scene of a catastrophe just before it occurs, only to lead him down an alternative path to an even more terrible oblivion complete with forecasts of doom, psychiatrists, and self-help charlatans.This film feels as creepy as any well-made ghost story I have ever seen, yet redefines the genre of supernatural storytelling in a very unique and original way.Donnie Darko is a film about heroism and sacrifice, decorated with disturbing imagery, the horror of everyday life, and a soundtrack reminiscent of Lynch's best. It is also a film worthy of several viewings and at least as many varied interpretations. I can not honestly recommend this to anybody who attends films for the pure sake of entertainment. Nor can I recommend it to people who need straight answers or have limited attention spans. It's art, and does not need to provide pat explanations for itself. As entertaining as this film may be, it has an unrelenting and merciless dark side, and might disturb even the most veteran indy film carmudgeon.This is a great film. See it.


                
*This is a review of the Directors Cut*I've already reviewed the originally released cut of 'Donnie Darko' so I am not going to review the film again. Instead, I'll comment on the differences between the two versions; unfortunately most of the differences took away from the original film, which I think is truly excellent. I traveled two hours round-trip with several friends to see the Directors Cut since it was not playing in Milwaukee at the time, and while I am glad that I saw it, I feel that the original is the superior version. There were many superfluous scenes in the new cut which did not add to the film; rather I almost felt that they made the pacing falter a bit. For example, the new scene between Donnie's parents in the café <U+0096> a completely unnecessary scene which did not add anything relevant to the story. There were a handful of scenes like this, as well as some added dialogue that indeed added to the development of some characters, (Drew Barrymore's character, the teacher 'Karen' was enhanced a bit) for some it just seemed silly (One of Donnie's bus stop friends telling Cherita that he 'hopes she gets molested' turned him from just being an incidental character into being an incidental character who is a jackass.) Another major difference between the two films was the addition of several special effects to the new cut. There were a lot of dream-like sequences (the file cabinets floating among the clouds ala Rene Magritte) and all of the stuff focusing on Donnie's eyeball, computer-ish codes, etc, that just did not work in my opinion. Also, some of the most subtle changes, soundtrack for example, were disarming. The opening song was 'The Killing Moon' by Echo and the Bunnymen in the original, which provided a great backdrop in the introduction to Donnie, his environment and his family. Kelly used 'Never Tear Us Apart' by INXS in his directors cut. Certainly, a good song, but after using a perfect song originally, it is hard to get used to an inferior replacement.Which is how I sum up my feelings about Kelly's directors cut in general? Why mess with (near) perfection? 'Donnie Darko' is a fantastic film that was so thought-provoking it made some people run the other way. Only those who were interested in something beyond the ordinary stayed to ponder and theorize its meaning, and still are to this day. Kelly's new cut does not enhance the film, rather, it made it plodding and a little dumbed-down <U+0096> two adjectives I never thought I would ascribe to this film. See the directors cut to play 'spot the new stuff', but stick with the original.--Shel


                
Ok I might be late to the party but I just watched DONNIE DARKO. Amazing film!!!!!!!! Jake Gyllenhaal as a youngin - now I can see how he came into the shell is has created for himself. An amazing film as much as it is depressing! Definitely recommend to anyone into cult classics and was living under a rock at the turn of the century like me!


                
Donnie Darko is often described as a cult film. But what is it that makes a film 'cult'? Well, they usually have a hardcore fan following formed on the basis of the film having quotable dialogue, memorable characters and/or scenes, a low budget and a rather eccentric plot. Donnie Darko falls into all these categories with ease; especially the latter. It's one of those films that invite more than one viewing, maybe more than two. Or three. And if The Matrix left you asking "what?" and Fight Club left you asking "how?", then Richard Kelly's Donnie Darko will simply leave you asking "WTF!?" It's c-o-n-f-u-s-i-n-g and a little odd but ever since its 2001 release this sombre suburban tale has been striking countless chords amongst mid-to-late teens and sci-fi fans alike. Why? To be honest, there is no one answer. What I can tell you, though, is that Donnie Darko is black, bold and illusively cool; as fresh and provocative now as it was then. Pure independent cinema. So, what's it all about? I hear you ask (including those who've seen it). Well umm OK explaining to someone what Donnie Darko is actually about is about as easy as mastering a rubix-cube in less than 30 seconds, in the dark, underwater. Admittedly, it's a ridiculously perplex film but there's something just, well, brilliant about it. It's a melodrama-cum-sci-fi- cum-black comedy-cum-teen movie, with a truly mystifying plot that'll prompt all first time viewers to scratch their heads and question everything. And even though there are many who still don't really "get it" thus opting to label "it" as some strange form of sci-fi crap, there are many (myself included) who consider it to be one of modern-American cinema's most understated masterstrokes. OK, so, with that said, here it goes; Set in 1988, the film revolves around this grinning, groggy-eyed teen', Donald J. Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal). Not only does Donnie get into regular trouble at school, he's also prone to depression, schizophrenia, sleepwalking, waking up on golf courses, hearing voices and visualizing a giant bunny-rabbit called Frank. Donnie's one messed-up kid, then, and what-do-you-know- things get even worse when Frank tells him that the world's going to end in 28 days, 6 hours, 42 minutes and 12 seconds. Oh, and there's also this book on time travel. And Gretchen. And Grandma Death. And there're these worm holes that kind of appear from people's chests. There's a tornado as well. And Patrick Swayze plays a pervert. Yep, Donnie's world, or parallel world, sure is a mad one but he tries his best to make sense of his ghostly visions; do they hold any value or truth? Is he a modern-day messiah? Or just plain bonkers? And why has a jet engine from an unidentified aircraft landed his room? The answers do become clear-ish as Donnie unravels the mystery surrounding, well, everything; discovering what he has to do to bring a halt to the madness and ease his pain. Happy ending? Sad ending? You decide. The real beauty of Richard Kelly's debut feature and perhaps one of the reasons as to why it's so popular is besides its unique blend of every genre imaginable, it's highly ambiguous; a compound prism of manifold meanings and interpretations. Some things just don't make sense and to be honest, its true quality will always be open to interpretation: you'll either love it, hate it, or hate it watch it again and love it. Me? I fall into the latter camp and would venture a guess and say I'm not alone. Which is probably why it performed so badly at the box- office, grossing more in the UK (£1.1m) than in the US ($728k). When Darko became available on DVD, though, word spread of its outlandish quality and it soon became a huge hit among sci- fi fans and teenagers. Why the latter? Again, I couldn't possibly say. It could be because it's rebellious in every sense of the word or because Jake Gyllenhaal is just so damn cool as the sinister protagonist. Or maybe even because the film itself expertly juggles high entertainment value- juvenile humour, endless intrigue, choking suspense- with a solemn tone as it chew on the themes of love and sacrifice, intolerance and depression, fate and redemption. Some of which, are subject-matters many teens know all too well. To cut a long review short, then, Donnie Darko is a pure and not-so- simple mind-boggler whose sheer weirdness does conceal its brilliance. In spite of its ever growing popularity, there are many who just won't take to it's off-the-wall temperament. Granted, it is a head- scratcher and if you're one of those who just can't bare to watch a film without having those precious answers handed to you on a silver platter, you best steer clear of this one. But, if you like your movies dark, doomy and challenging then may I suggest (if you haven't already done so) that you pick yourself up a copy just to see what all the fuss is about. But do not (and I repeat) do not expect to be spoon-fed the answers. Not all loose ends are tied-up for you and it's up to you, and you alone, to press rewind and tie them for yourself.


                
This is an intriguing film with Jake Gyllenhaal playing the title role. Is Donnie Darko slowing going mad, is the weird giant rabbit a friend or an enemy, and is there something sinister going on? The story unravels and you get drawn into the strange world of Donnie Darko and his journey which reached an inevitable, melancholy but strangely satisfying conclusion.I won't say much about the plot, but you might need to have a second look to understand exactly what is happening. Only one thing needed to be said - if you ever want to watch this film, watch the original version, avoid the Director's cut version. The director's cut added unnecessary scenes and pointless graphics which, although perhaps the director thought might think help explain the movie better, is a big mistake. The original version is mysterious and all the better for it, and if you don't understand it completely, it matters not a jot. In fact it is silly to try to make sense of the science as some tried to do because it is hardly the point of the film, and in any case Hollywood simply can't do science well in most of its films. Just enjoy an intriguing journey through the mind of a disturbed (or may be not) teenager.


                
*Donnie's SPOILERS* Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal, 'Brokeback Mountain') is a 16 year old boy with some mental problems who lives with his sisters Elizabeth (Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jake's real-life sister) and Samantha (Daveigh Chase, 'The Ring') and his parents, Eddie (Holmes Osborne) and Rose (Mary McDonnell) in Middlesex, Virginia, in 1988.The night of October 2, he narrowly avoids dying in a bizarre incident, in which a 747's engine falls right into his room.From then on, Donnie begins to see a mysterious bunny called Frank (James Duval) who tells him the world will end in 28 days, 6 hours, 42 minutes and 12 seconds, and some mysterious things begin to happen, things that involve also his family, the new girl in school Gretchen (Jena Malone), some teachers, like the uptight (and stupid) Kitty Farmer (Beth Grant), the intelligent Karen Pomeroy (Drew Barrymore) and the calm Kenneth Monitoff (Noah Wyle), and a way-too-cheery preacher, Jim Cunningham (Patrick Swayze).I won't say anything more, because this is a movie that has to be watched and internalized, a personal experience everyone should have.I whole heartedly recommend it.Donnie Darko: 9/10.
Donnie Darko is a cinematic treat for all thinking movie Fans. The story is very clever, but is difficult to follow if you don't give it your full attention.Rarely will you see a film as good as Donnie Darko, but i must stress that this film could easily be discarded as rubbish if you are not ready for its complexity and depth.Perfectly cast and with very few (if any) plot holes this is a film that toys with time incredibly effectively.A firm 9/10 If you like the idea but not the execution then try 'The Butterfly Effect' it is inferior to this, but more linear in its approach . 'Frequency' is another worthy of your attention.


                
I really enjoyed this film.This film is a wonderful piece of film making. It was so original. It isn't often that you go to a film that you feel is something that hasn't ever been thought of before. I think that is one of the strongest parts of the film.The storyline is a bit hard to grasp but only in the sense that it makes the viewer an active participant in the process.See this film if you can, It is a wonderful dark ride.p.s. Film Fact. At the films first public showing of the film at the Sundance Film Festival, one of the reels was thread backwards and upside down. The caused a 1 hour delay in the middle of the film. During this time the director answered questions and Stuart Stone rapped and danced to an audience provided beat box.


                
This movie is widely misunderstood. Most critics fail to see, that this is not a David Lynch wannabe in a spooky-comming-of-age-in-the-80's-flick. This is a modern fairytale about the passion of Christ. Notice that this boy is tormented by the anxiety of loneliness in the face of death (the prophecy from the rabbit, that the end of the world is near). The meaning of the narrative as well as spiritually first appears for us and the troubled young man as choice of sacrificing for love takes the gloom out of life and the movie. The turning point of the movie is placed when the young lovers a attending a screening of Raimi's "Evil Dead". In the theater the tormented youngster decides to follow the rabbit (down the hole) and burn the fake evangelists house down eventually disclosing the hollow moralists lies and diabolical misleading of the school kids (remember the scene where the young man calls the moral-preacher "the Antichrist" in front of the school). As he leaves the movie-theater to follow the advice of the rabbit, the young man passes under the billboards, where the two main features of the cinema are announced: The last temptation of Christ - the evil dead. When these two movies are placed together, they point towards the message of the movie - when you are tempted to think, that dying is always meaningless even for the ones you love, you are a victim of the anxiety, that even tried to get a hold of Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane. But as the young man gives life back to the girl he loves, by paying with his own (placing himself in the room, where the jet-engine crashes) - he dies with a smile, he sacrifices himself - in the spirit of Christ - hence giving meaning to a cold and superficial world of shallow psychiatry and cheap morality. Watch it again - and this time let the fairytale of the oldest truth outshine the appearance of the surreal. This is not Lynch - it's Pecinpah drunk on joy.
If only this fantastic film was to be turned into a TV Series! Would need quite a bit of effort to get the casting right. With all the original actors now aged it'd need to be re-cast. But am I the only one that sees brilliant potential for a newly written TV Series? Surely the fan-base is already there?


                
I am studying media studies and have been asked to study this film for my examinations....Well, there are supposed to be negative connotations to any exam material I have to study but this one isn't.Donnie Darko, a story about a teenage boy, who depending on your view, is experiencing hallucinations or is ahead of time. An unusual concept of time-travel, which has been experienced in the past but not quite like this, set in an unusual time zone of the 1980s. The reason I say its an unusual time zone is because the 1980s is very recent history and not many films set them selves in history that recent. It's genius.This film is a masterpiece, it makes the audience search for the answers by watching it a second and perhaps a third time. Also it's one of the few films that I don't think can ever be remade, or at least to the same standard. With the clever use of CGI, using just enough to tell the story that it isn't overloaded with the special effects.The acting is the root of the story, the actors provide the anchor in the surrealism. Jake Gyllenhaal and Jena Malone are superb in their portrayal of teenagers of the 1980s, their characters are quite obscured also.It is an interesting film to watch, you'll remember it whether you liked it or not.
(Minor spoiler noted at bottom of review) The following is a comparison review for both DVD versions of the movie. Whereas almost everyone seems to see the theatrical version as the superior cut, i couldn't disagree more. The director's cut is superior in every way. It isn't a chopped up mess that just seems like random events are happening like the theatrical cut. Many people would argue that they understand/understood the theatrical version on their own, but i doubt that. It makes no sense whatsoever. The only way to grasp some understanding on the theatrical version was to read an online 'philosophy of time travel' book. When you have to read something online just to understand a movie, you know something is horribly wrong. A viewer shouldn't have to spend hours on end to understand one movie, nor study an online entity that is separate from the actual movie. The director's cut, on the other hand, makes near perfect sense, and everything falls into place (as a movie should) and INCLUDES the important 'Philosophy of time travel' book pages into the movie. Like i said, the movie may not necessarily make complete sense on the first viewing, but upon the second or third viewing, the movie will make pretty much complete sense. After that, it's fun to watch over and over to catch all of the little clues strewn throughout the movie. The director's cut also contains many satisfying family moments between Donnie and/or family, and many other story-crucial scenes which should not have been cut in the first place. Scenes like this flesh out the movie. The theatrical version doesn't have these and it just ends up making the movie feel rather stale. I wish movie studios would learn to back off and not to require a movie to be cut up just so more people can watch it in theater. That's really ignorant. A movie should always be ONLY cut to the best of it's full potential, not cut for more people's butts in theater seats. And the theatrical version suffers horribly from this. As for the music changes from the theatrical version to the director's cut version: while i didn't like the changes at first, the director's cut quickly grew on me and the music changes in are ultimately better. While the 'killing moon' song does go good in the beginning of the theatrical version, i disagree with it because the words in the song give away what the movie is about way too soon. The theatrical version DVD transfer suffers from dirt poor sound quality compared to the director's cut DVD. The sound on the director's cut DVD is superb. The bass is good, sounds and music are clear and sharp, and the picture seems to be slightly clearer and more refined. Theatrical version DVD: PROS: -Good extras/special features including 2 audio commentaries CONS: -Movie makes very little sense (if any sense at all) -Poor sound and picture quality -Vital plot elements and scenes are missing -Doesn't include the time travel book in the movie (it is in special features, but is way too small to read, so it is useless.) Other: -1 DVD -So-so DVD case artworkDirector's cut DVD: PROS: -Makes sense (Finally!) -Good picture and GREAT sound quality -Vital scenes are included -Nicely enhanced special effects sequences -Includes the story-crucial time travel book IN the ACTUAL movie -Hilarious '#1 fan Darkomentary' -1 audio commentary Other: -2-disc DVD set -Cool DVD case artwork and slipcoverCONS: -Some of the time travel pages pass by too quickly to read completely, resulting in having to rewind/pause the movie to read them. PRO: After reading them the first or second time(s), you'll already know what they say next time you watch the movie so you won't have a reason to pause or rewind the movie anymore as you can just glance at them and know what they say.Theatrical version: 6.0 out of 10Director's cut: 9 out of 10Theatrical version/director's cut DVD sound comparison example: (Minor spoiler warning)When Donnie is in the therapy room and tells the doctor than Frank the rabbit is "RIGHT IN FRONT OF ME!", the theatrical DVD sound is very bland but the director's cut DVD sound for this is crisp and chilling!Closing comments: I was never a fan of the movie until the director's cut came out(i bought it on release day), now i love the movie. Thanks to the director and everyone else responsible for putting this director's cut DVD set together!
i've seen donnie darko several times and i think the time travel questions in the movie are incidental. i think the entire movie is basically donnie realizing he's going to die and him fighting his fate. he is shown, through the characters in the movie, what could happen if he chooses not to die. i also think there's his fear of dying alone without wrapping up the loose ends of his life that has made him create the distraction of time travel to try and explain the unexplainable. i think the characters in the alternate universe are symbolic of his fears and questions about life and he's trying to resolve those fears and questions before he actually dies. that's why i think he laughs at the end....b/c he was able to resolve the loose ends and die without regret.my simple theory does not answer several questions though.......part of it is we have no idea what donnie's life was like before the jet engine crashed through his room. so all of the people in the alternate universe are probably people he had some sort of relationship with previous to the start of the movie and that's how they play certain roles in the alternate universe. i don't think there was any literal time travel happening. i think the time travel story line was just donnie trying to explain the unexplainable; i.e. the mystery of death. i think the time travel storyline was created by donnie. i think frank was symbolic to donnie of his fate. i also think the portals that came from several characters during the movie are symbolic of that person's soul or their path through life. oh yeah, and i also think that donnie shoots frank at the end of the movie b/c he realizes that the universe was not real but all in donnie's head just before he's to die.i loved the symbolism throughout the entire movie and wonder about some of them: when the two teachers are in the lounge and the male teacher says "donnie darko?" and drew barrymore's character says "i know". i have no idea what that scene means in the movie.also, the jogger in the orange suit is staring at donne and his girlfriend when he wants to kiss her and then that same jogger is standing out front of donnie's house during the halloween party. he also flashes his flashlight into the camera, similar imagery that frank's glowing eye had throughout the alternate universe story.also, the scene after donnie and gretchen walk down the stairs at the party and donnie follows the portal to the kitchen where there's a note that says "frank was here, went to get beer".....there was a strange cut after that and then suddenly gretchen was standing there and it seemed like some time had passed so what happened during that span of time?i don't know....just some thoughts. my simple explanation doesn't explain lots of other things in the movie


                
I had watched this for the first time recently and it was amazing, with all the cast putting in great performances, and often a good use of mise en scene (for example clues to other characters etc throughout the film) this was amazing and can easily be watched numerous times.The issues it explores are immense and gripping. Without sounding cliché it does keep you guessing, the characters are all believable although not to the point that you feel you can reach out and grab them because that would just be trippin', but yeah it is amazing to watch, it doesn't just pass over you, but struts past you picking you up along the way.Its one dope film, although stopping it perfection are the smallest in things (the V.V. rare lack in pace) and if i could would give this film a 9.8 Easily one of Jake Gyllenhaals greatest performances, Tis awesome.J.T -take another hit-


                
The fact that this is the Directors first film is amazing to me. The scenes dripped with style, yet that style never seemed distracting. None of it was self congratulatory or gluttonous. The visuals were supported by a truly emotional score and its hard to find fault in the 80's pop tunes that found their way into some of the more impressive scenes.The story is very much thought provoking. Its the type that leaves you pondering the possibilities voiced by the characters. There is nothing condescending about this film. Answers aren't simply handed out, rather the viewer is left to draw many conclusions instead. The acting is also top notch. If i hadn't known beforehand that Patrick Swayze was in this film I would have been shocked. His character is amusing and interesting all at the same time. A great cameo for him. Drew Barrymore is forgettable, though that in no way detracts from the film. Of course the star is Jake Gyllenhaal. There is nothing that can be said to properly praise his performance,he gives a great performance in what i find to be his best movie yet.This movie is great in every way and leaves you on the edge of your seat throughout the movie.


                
A paranoid schizophrenic fails to save his girlfriend, and possibly all of humanity, by murdering a giant bunny rabbit. So he finds religion and goes back in time to kill himself, which does the trick. Only the bunny rabbit's ghost has tricked him into killing himself before he kills the bunny who kills his girlfriend. And he's not really schizophrenic, maybe. No, wait. My favorite movie about teenagers and family, the creepiest exploration of mental health management since CUCKOO'S NEST, definitely the best recorded use of Patrick Swayze: DONNIE DARKO is all these things, though it spends little time on these elements, because primarily it is a very smart thriller. The mystery is compelling and scary, and that journey is worth taking for its own merits. But this movie is much more, because it touches with the illuminating finger of God the years between carelessness and responsibility. The thriller part of the story is told through the filter of a crazy person, a nice allegory for the teenage condition - we don't really understand what we're seeing, a lot of the time. Why does a Halloween mask whisper doom from the mirror? Why do we keep waking up in strange places? What's with the jet engine in our bedroom? These scenes of disorientation are juxtaposed with a hundred moments of great reassurance and normalcy - Holmes Osborne and Mary McDonnell are the truest screen parents in a long time; 80s pop conjures an ironically simpler period of American history; Swayze and Beth Grant are comfortingly familiar bogeymen. The contrast of order and chaos allows both elements to stand delineated.It is a great help that Richard Kelly is apparently very good with actors. The performances are among the most poignant in any of these fine actors' careers. There's more, though. There's thoughtfulness at every level. It's idiosyncratic in the most exciting way. Direction neatly supports script, such that nearly every choice works. I think the visible boom mike in Swayze's video is a little much, as is Beth Grant's mistaking Graham Greene for Lorne. These moments break the truth of the world for cheap comic effect. But Kelly was still very young, and besides, he makes sure that every other piece of dialogue, every cut, every music cue, reinforces theme and propels story while expanding the moment. The talent show is a feat of theme engineering-as-character development - the fat girl's recital nearly, but not quite, transcends her inherent awkwardness. The disapproving teacher can't help tapping her feet to the music. Teenagers leap in approbation of younger girls' precocious sexuality. There is real hell here, hell on earth. Your harmless 10 year old sister is trained into a prancing, haughty little bitch. Your girlfriend's stepdad stabbed her mom and is still running around loose. You're going insane, and the best intentions of the nicest people you know are worse than useless. That's real life. It's bad enough without the bunny. I wouldn't be 16 again, even if I could be 16 again.
"Donnie Darko" is well-written, with a medley of humor, tragedy, and clues that keep the viewer guessing. The plot was engaging, but the ending was a little disappointing. However, I feel this ending was the only credible way the movie could have ended without drastically lowering ratings.The Darko clan is interesting and reminiscent of the Addams family. Donnie, our protagonist, displays wisdom at odd times, rebelliousness whenever necessary, his psychotic side at pivotal moments, and teenage angst everywhere else. The Darko parents have a very strange sense of humor, and are very fun to watch. Donnie's sisters seem to be normal post/pre-adolescents, but still entertain the audience. The characters, even the minor ones, are also believable. Donnie's friend, Gretchen, is supportive and loving. Donnie's English teacher, Ms. Pomeroy, is informative and very cryptic. His phys. ed. teacher, Mrs. Farmer, is the epitome of awful teachers around the world. Donnie's science teacher, Dr. Monitoff, is resourceful, but a little too inhibited. His therapist, Dr. Thurman, is hard to describe; she is a gentle person, but she contributes eerie comments during her hypnotherapy sessions. There is also Jim Cunningham, a motivational speaker whom Donnie deems "the Antichrist." Lastly, there's Donnie's imaginary friend, Frank, the "six-foot-tall bunny rabbit." He is arguably the most mysterious character. Frank appears at frightening moments and delivers strange advice. He also takes control of Donnie while he sleeps and forces Donnie to do rather interesting actions.Because the movie does not solve some issues on its own, I recommend that viewers watch the movie (especially the Director's Cut) at least twice in order to understand everything. A major plot point is a book entitled "The Philosophy of Time Travel." Throughout the movie, certain passages from the book are displayed on screen, and it is the viewer's job to piece these passages together and solve all the mysteries. It's a perfect rainy day activity.
If you idea of a good movie is to see teens discussing the sex lives of smurfs, then you will find something right up your alley here. Sadly, that is about one minute of this interesting film that defies description. Is it a supernatural thriller? A comedy? Irony? A coming-of-age movie? It is all of this and none of this.Jake Gyllenhaal (Brokeback Mountain, Proof) plays an emotionally disturbed (szichophrenic?) teen who talks to a weird rabbit that tells him the world will end in 28 days. What happens in that time is the stuff legends are made of.You will definitely not get this on the first viewing. Maybe, even after your 10th viewing, you will still be confused, but keep in mind, during this summer of endless sequels, that there has to be something that challenges you and makes you use your head for something more than placing a ball cap.There is great acting by a variety of favorites, and great lines throughout, but it is not about the actors or the lines. It's about you. Check it out.


                
Donnie Darko is a fascinating look into how someone with mental health issues would live. This movie follows Donnie a teenaged boy with visual hallucinations. He sees a man wearing a disturbing rabbit costume, Frank, and believes this creature is from the future. The main points of the movie are as follows a turbine engine falls into Donnie's room while he is out, he hallucinates Frank, whom convinces Donnie to burn down the home of someone Donnie does not like, Donnie's girlfriend gets killed by an accident and Donnie goes back in time to save her. Unfortunately, he goes to the day the turbine engine falls into his room and Donnie dies. The final scene is his family outside his house crying but his mother is away from everyone and she looks like she is thinking. I believe that the movie actually begins with Donnie dying in a freak accident, unconnected to the rest of the movie, and the entirety of the film was a hallucination Donnie's mother is living in to cope with what is happening. It is pointed out repeatedly that people think Donnie is mentally ill and many mental illnesses are genetic. Thus, it is possible that Donnie inherited his illness from his mother. Frank acts as his illness and forces him to flood the school and burns down the man's house. These are typical things that hallucinations ask from their victims, most hallucinations are not pleasant for the person suffering from this psychosis. Also, when his mother speaks about seeing her son in pain she seems to feel for him more so than the rest of the family as if she has experienced it herself. Donnie's mother goes to live out her hallucination where Donnie did not die in a freak accident, rather he was a hero who sacrificed to save someone he loved. I am not sure if I am right but that is what is so great about this movie. I highly suggest watching this movie because everyone may see it a little bit differently. The story is left open so that the viewer can draw their own conclusions.
I think my favorite thing about this movie is that I don't actually know everything going on. I feel like every time I watch it I see something different, or think something different. That's the strongest thing about the movie: it keeps you coming back to try and figure it out. I'm sure some people have figured it out enough, at least for themselves, but I really like the wonder.


                
I have come to the conclusion that this is just another accidentally good movie (check the director's other movies if you doubt it). In my opinion, using time loops and everything related to time loops in a movie, is cheating - if it's done right and without errors, it's almost impossible not to be a good movie.
This movie is not really about time traveling; it's actually about alternate universes. Just to make sure you got it, Donnie is NOT a hero, he's just a victim; he's used as an agent of entropy; the question is who is behind all this? Maybe one or more superior omnipresent entities that reign over the multiverse, or it's just the autoregulation of the space-time continuum, in order to avoid paradoxes, but more importantly, avoiding the destruction of the whole multiverse. The large bunny rabbit is actually a good "mask" for the movie and it's used in order to distract your attention from what's really important. Donnie is manipulated and controlled in a specific way, leading him to a certain set of events (he thinks he can make choices but he can't).
The director's cut version explains everything pretty well. But, here's a friendly advice: watch the normal cut first (it's much better); the director's cut contains many unnecessary scenes.
The movie is also good because it combines many genres: drama, mystery, fantasy, some sci-fi moments, it's psychological, it even manages to be a teen movie and it also has some subtle horror reminiscences. It's a movie that makes you use your imagination!
Note to self: I'm a little disappointed that at the end of the movie, it wasn't used the original "Mad world" song (performed by Tears for fears).
Donnie Darko is my 5th favorite movie. It is likely the movie I have watched the most. Yet, I do, in fact find it to be notably imperfect. I'll talk about positives first.The acting and writing of characters is the most unusually human of perhaps any movie I've ever seen. Legitimate humanity and natural actions can be something very rare in sci-fi, and lets be honest, a lot of movies, so it feels very refreshing. The character of Donnie's mom particularly stands out as having the most believable reactions to events of the plot. For example, the scene in which Donnie murmurs "Bitch" as she closes the door: She hears what he said, stops, makes a small debate about going back into the room, but ultimately ends up letting it be, only to talk to her husband about it. Donnie, additionally, has a great reaction in this scene, acting brave in the heat of the moment, but immediately looking back at the door obviously nervous about the chances of his mother coming back through the door. These, to me, are very seemingly real and believable actions by all members, and are very refreshing in the genre. Other fantastic examples involving the writing/acting of the mother include the scene meeting with the psychiatrist and the end of the movie. Symbolism: There's entirely too much symbolism to really to go into, but the overall use of symbolism throughout is very strong.Music: The use of period music in the film is very well done. And if you feel like stretching symbols, some songs even feel like their themes reflect the events or upcoming events of the movie.Cerebral Sci-Fi: The movie is one of the best types of sci-fi (to me), in which the sci-fi elements exist in order to progress the plot, but not to be completely thrown in your face throughout the movie (not that there's always something wrong with that), and the film exists more to learn and exam the characters. The sci- fi elements are VERY deep and honestly some viewers could probably watch it one time and not even occur to them that those elements really even exist.Not to take away from the number of other things I really enjoy about Donnie Darko, but I'll move on to the most important part, my main point of contention about the movie.How complicated is too complicated in plot? Donnie Darko strongly challenges my belief of that. After several viewings, the events of the film are pretty clear. But the "How?" is much different from the "What?". Before realizing there was a director-created, best explanation of the plot, I created my own idea of what occurred; which incidentally is really not even close to the "correct" explanation. The actual explanation is very abstract and deeply rooted in borderline pseudo-science, multidimensional theories and the most complicated, niche areas of physics. Even after reading it, I can't help but scratch my head a little bit. Which leads me to think that perhaps these ideas are too lightly touched upon in the actual film, with the primary explanation being a conversation between Donnie and his Physics teacher. This explanation is still very sparse, and only explains a portion of what is going on. The point I'm attempting to give is that when really read into, the actual ramifications behind the events of the plot are much too lightly touched upon, and almost too complicated to be reasonable in a film. Unless of course, you like to read into these things, in which case you would like this part of the movie (which is why I consider this issue to be a point of contention rather than a true negative).
One of my favorite movies. The attractiveness of conflict is the thing that made it great for me. But in deep, everything is logical in plot. You can't understand what i mean without watching. Must watch. Inspring and mind opening. You will probably need to watch it again a second time to understand everything. I recommend Theatrical cut. Director's Cut explains so much that makes movies magic go away.


                
The actual plot of "Donnie Darko" —During the presidential election of 1988, a teenager named Donnie Darko sleepwalks out of his house one night, and sees a giant, demonic-looking rabbit named Frank, who tells him the world will end in 28 days, 6 hours, 42 minutes, and 12 seconds. He returns home the next morning to find that a jet engine has crashed through his bedroom. As he tries to figure out why he survived and tries to deal with people in his town, like the school bully, his conservative health teacher, and a self-help guru, Frank continues to turn up in Donnie's mind, causing him to commit acts of vandalism and worse.How? Like this: Dark. Darker. Darko.Richard Kelly's debut film is beautiful and bizarre. The audience hopes to solve questions asked by the film, but by the time the curtains close, we have more questions than answers."Destruction is a form of creation" – Donnie Darko. The time stamp mantra in the movie "28:06:42:12" or how the long the world had left in the movie was created simply by adding or subtracting 1 to each number in how long a lunar cycle takes, which is 27:07:43:11. You can thank me (or astronomy) for that.No to mention the moment: A jet engine crashes into Donnie's bedroom. Darko.
