I think the reason why it was so god awful for me is because it was a very slow paced comedy, and not that there is anything wrong with that, but it just really was not all that funny. There was one scene that was so fruitless. Him waving for a taxi, right outside of the hospital, the taxi driver stopped 5 yards ahead of him so he had to limp to the door to open it. But then the taxi driver just took off. I mean i understand that sometimes life can be crappy but this just reminded of very badly written German satire. It just was not entertaining or funny. And I Love his stand ups. This however seems to be something else that he has been having up his sleeves that I just do not appreciate.
I read many of the reviews and so tried to watch this. After seven episodes I can no longer continue. It is just not funny, a major failing in this genre.I don't mind the occasional sexual joke, but for them to be the sole source of attempted humor, I just gave up. I don't think endless references to vaginas (vaginae?) are in any way clever or fresh. It isn't a word that comes up commonly in mixed conversation, so I guess Louie was trying for shock value, but this would have limited attraction to anyone not brain-dead.In one episode Louie, in his stand up act verbally abused an audience member in a particularly coarse manner. True, this was part of the act and the show, but it was too extreme. In terms of observational humor, Jerry Seinfeld was masterful and managed it without excessive mentioning of his or anyone else's genitals. Billy Connolly did a hilarious act where he discussed his genitals, and I'd encourage the shows writers to observe and perhaps take note of how a professional works.Quite simply, if you like your humor to be witty and intelligent, you'll have to look elsewhere.


                
titled as a comedy but as much as I have tried I could not find a single moment of comedy in this boring "sitcom". there is more "drama" than comedy in this miserable "sitcom" and it is not the good kind. even the Standup bits (wannabe Seinfeld) are boring, cannot believe anyone will pay to watch him. I would feel ripped off if I would pay for such a level of standup comedy. and the worse thing is that those boring jokes, keep repeating itself.want a spoiler: summery of Louie in two lines I am divorce I am ugly, I have two daughters which take too much of my time and I will tell you about it even though that it may shock you! (and this, friends is the entire first two seasons). did I have mentioned boring?
I can't help but notice how many people pressed the NO button at the bottom of negative reviews when asked if they found the review helpful. I can understand this, since the world is full of nonsense. Or, who knows, maybe this Louie guy spends his time on the net clicking NO buttons.Anyway, I'll just spit out why I don't like this show:Louie is ridiculously UGLY. Not funny ugly, simply hurtful to look at ugly. Don't take my word for it: he says it himself.Alas, the more important stuff. First episode: he is telling a joke to an audience. It goes something like "Blah, blah, blah (laughs), Blah, blah, blah (laughs)". Suddenly, he comes out with the way people are dying in Africa (laughs), how that it's happening when there are people driving big cars around (laughs), and how he himself is one of those people (laughs) who could simply sell his car for 10000 dollars (laughs), get a more little one (laughs) and give that money to the people starving to death in Africa (laughs). Not sure if you get what my problem is here. Let me explain: firstly, I can't understand how anybody (except for a bunch of selfish, egocentric individuals) could laugh when they hear a person saying that people are right now starving to death. Where is the joke there? Secondly, anybody who makes a joke out of that and how he is supporting that happening can't be anything but part of that bunch of selfish, egocentric individuals. Is that not a bit disturbing?That makes me think of those people who go around saying that you just have to laugh at everything, take everything as a joke. The real joke is how those same people don't find funny the bad stuff that happens to them. I can't imagine Louie witnessing how his two little daughters go through an agonizing and torturous death by starvation and saying "hey, let's make a joke out of it!". But, well, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe he could even make a joke out of himself starving to death while his body is eating is own stomach due to the lack of anything else to provide any minimal sustenance. I guess he could joke about that for a while, since he seems to have enough fat reserves to go for a while. Sorry, I hope I'm not crossing any lines here by stating the fact that he is fat (by choice, not because he has any thyroid problem). After all, is it not allowed to laugh at everything? I won't go into any comparisons with Seinfeld or Curb your enthusiasm. Enough said that I find humor in lots of different places, some more refined than others, ranging from Father Ted or Scary movie to Frasier, for example.In this show, I can't find any real humor ANYWHERE. And now, die-hard fans and critics of rough parts of town, go ahead and enthusiastically click the NO button down there. I don't give a damn. I have real important things to care about, like the way you carelessly destroy the planet while sitting on your butt laughing with shows like these, or the children starving to death while you cruise around with your big car, grease from the burger in your hand spilling on your belly when making an effort to swap it for your ringing new model android phone.


                
I watched three Louie CK stand ups in a row as soon as I got Netflix and I loved them.For quite sometime, I've been interested in Louie and that just grew when I watched his live shows so I finally got around to watching the TV show.Wow. I'm actually very disappointed.I really wanted to like it but I am bored sh*tless watching this.There are barely any laughs in both the drama side and the comedy side, though I do prefer the stand up segments more than the drama part of the show.I think I'll just stick to his stand up shows.


                
I noticed "Louie" currently has a higher rating on the IMDb than "Curb Your Enthusiasm". While I agree everyone is entitled to their own opinion, I'd like to at once review "Louie" while also comparing it with "Curb". Hopefully you'll entertain my ramblings and follow along, I think you might notice a few things you hadn't thought of before...Let me start by saying I like both shows, I think they're both a much needed departure from the typical sitcom format of lovable but bumbling husband and his relationship issues with his more attractive but nagging wife. I'll admit I liked "Everybody Loves Raymond" and "The King of Queens", but I'm just so tired of those kinds of shows now. I think it's nice to see shows that aren't still relying on the same old format used since "The Honeymooners".That being said, when you pit shows like "Louie" and "Curb" against one another...You have to examine both their differences and their similarities. So, let's get right to it: A few similarities, far from an exhaustive list: Louie C.K. and Larry David are not necessarily the most likable characters, yet somehow possess a certain charm that draws you to them.Louie C.K. and Larry David like to point out to people things that they've done that aren't polite or correct, although ironically they might do this in an inappropriate manner themselves. I would like to draw attention to the fact that "Curb" has been around a lot longer than "Louie" and you can't help but feel like "Louie" has drawn inspiration from "Curb".A few differences, again, a far from exhaustive list: "Louie" has a strange format. He'll have more of what I consider to be vignettes interrupted by brief segments where he's performing his stand up routine at a comedy club. The comedy club bit reminds me a lot of "Seinfeld" but I'm not going to go so far as to say it's ripping "Seinfeld" off because how else are you going to have a show about a comedian without showing him do stand up comedy? Since "Louie" uses little vignettes, nothing is really tied together. It's not like "Curb" where everything that happens in the show has a direct and distinctive purpose and connects somehow to something else that'll happen by the end of the episode. "Curb" uses a sort of a "nothing is incidental/all loose ends tied up" format.Another thing about "Louie" that some praise while I don't particularly care for is its lack of continuity. Granted, it allows "Louie" to be able to tell any kind of story he wants to tell without having to be held to what's happened on his show before, but let's say you're interested in a particular storyline and you'd like to see it develop more, there's a chance you might never see anything come of that storyline again, which I think is a real shame.Although I like both shows, I just like "Curb" more. Again, your mileage may vary and I think both shows have a right to exist, but I just think it's a little early for "Louie" to be given as much credit as it has thus far.
This did not work at all. I like Louis CK and thought Lucky Louie did not deserve the fate it had on HBO.However, This show was not funny, the stand up comedy moments made no sense. The jokes were not good either. This was yuppie type entertainment but just never clicked. Sometimes trying to be intelligent ruins the entertainment experience and in this case it is exactly that. It seems the actors were trying too hard to be serious in situations that were supposed to be comedy. It was thrown together without much thought and quite frankly bad comedy writing that did not do much to lighten the dramatic exposure. I got that this was supposed to be different but it was certainly a mimic of Seinfeld with the Stand up comedy, which by the way was every 5 minutes in the show. Seinfeld left it at the end and beginning of each show and even he realized it took away from the show and he abandoned the format. I do not believe this show would be saved if Louis CK did the same thing. He is a comedian that should be doing straight sitcom shows like the mentioned Lucky Louie. Black comedy or dramedy or whatever you want to call this is not Louie CK style. I will enjoy Louis Ck in his other projects but will not be watching this show again.


                
I have always been a big fan of Louis C.K., which is why I put off watching this and Lucky Louie for so long.I have seen enough bad TV to know that most stand-up comedians do terrible sitcoms and I hate to be disappointed.Wouldn't you know it, this may be the worst TV show a comedian has ever done.It makes Ellen look like comedy gold.I really don't understand how this show is so popular.Even if you aren't looking for laughs, this show has nothing to offer.Just a sad old man wandering the streets and being a bad father.It's not entertaining at all.Maybe C.K. means Comedy Killer?If you feel the urge to watch this crap go watch Lucky Louie instead.That was a real TV show.


                
