I hate giving the 10-star rating because it appears exaggerated and the best I can do to avoid people looking down on the review/plea for people to watch this program is to say, "It's the best at what it's trying to be." I'm not going to use that statement to save my ass here because I'm not sure what this show is trying to be other than honest.'Louie' is the first show I've come across that I absolutely refuse to let myself wait for DVD to see. It's the first show that I don't sit down to watch with the sole anticipation of having it either cheer me up with comedy or shock me with dramatic twists. 'Louie' is simply something I watch because it feels like I'm gaining life experience from it, which is impressive considering Louis C.K., or at least the Louie character's self-proclaimed life goals are to raise his kids and hold his title as World's Best Masturbator.It's also impressive considering that I, and I'm sure many viewers, have already experienced nearly every situation this show covers, from being forced out of the house with no plans to being on a date with someone who thinks less of you for doing the right thing despite saying that he/she valued righteousness. So what's to gain from reliving these unpleasant situations every Tuesday evening? Great shows like Curb Your Enthusiasm bank on this question by allowing the main character to vengefully act on his everyday irritations only to have it bite him in the ass by the episode's end. This way you can laugh at the absurdity while saying, "I know what he's feeling, man," followed by, "but I'm sure glad *I* didn't act on it." It's a winning formula because the audience always comes out unscathed. 'Louie' makes that show look like it's playing too safe (which it isn't, by the way.)If the Louie character ever acts on his irritations, he does it in a way that almost feels like he's seen Curb, and thus trying to avoid any unnecessary harm while still following his gut instinct. In other words, he's a coward sometimes, just like we are. Curb's Larry David states in interviews that his eponymous character is more like him than he is. Louie is simply Louis, and perhaps, Louis is simply everybody, and PERHAPS that can be a little discomforting. But that's okay, because at least, just like when we look back on mistakes or simply situations that we wish we could have handled differently (so that we could've gotten laid that night), it's almost always hilarious. The difference here is that it's *always* hilarious. . . though it's still unbelievably discomforting. For that, I'm more than happy to not save my ass on this one. Enjoy chewing on it, critics.


                
Seinfeld revolved around a stand-up comedian constantly sabotaged by the catastrophic social faux pas of himself and the people inextricably involved in his life, intercut with performance sets by the actual comic. So is Louie. But where Seinfeld was purportedly "a show about nothing," Louie is a show in which from moment to moment, you can safely expect nothing. Not only does Louis C.K. straddle the gaps in social protocol and everyday confrontations we all understand, but also the extremes of comedy and tragedy. It's a gallows comedy, in which we can find ourselves laughing in elation at the both wry and surreal absurdity of one moment, then clenching our chair arms in both tension and incredulity at moments of agonizing pain and even at times a true sense of impending brutality.There is no continuity from one episode to the next, or even from one vignette to the next. Each episode is comprised of usually two scenarios book-ended by stand-up sets by Louie, which may or may not turn out to be part of one of the scenes. It's the direct inversion by an observant everyman's misanthrope of the TV sitcom. Whereas every sitcom we've ever seen has one essential soundstage, an ongoing play-like farce that runs before two cameras, all the same characters show up and everything not only works out but is just the same as before by the end, each week Louie will give a stream of consciousness an unsystematic narrative silhouette almost invariably a sequence of encounters with characters who enter and exit, yet very few ever return. Some actors and actresses return in different roles. Louie's mother is at one point played by an old woman as an appalling malignant narcissist and in another episode a humble, warm-hearted young working-class woman.The show is written, directed and edited by its star, and he creates a visually realistic look and atmosphere for his small stories, captured quite cinematically. In the God episode, arguably the boldest, most powerful episode, he injects solemn amber tones, almost I dare say comparable to Gordon Willis' work on the Godfather films. There is a considerable proliferation of long takes in which two characters will share dialogue that sounds and feels no less real than that which we'll share with someone tomorrow. Sometimes, he's bold enough to prolong a single, stationary take in which nothing is being said on-camera, but all the action that affects the character in the shot is occurring off-camera, and in that very single take, we're carried seamlessly and steadily from deadpan absurdity to genuine terror. Then comes the cut: Life goes on; nothing's really that big of a deal. Simply put, each week, C.K. delivers one or two of the most powerful and memorable short films you may ever see.


                
Louie is a very weird show. I can honestly say I have never seen such an unorthodox approach to directing and editing in television. Comparisons to Curb Your Enthusiasm have their merit, as the show often thrives on propelling awkward moments, but the focus of the show is in a much different direction.Louie has a knack for blurring surrealism with reality. Many times in the series, the viewer can enjoy scenes that seem to scream 'it was going so bad, this might as well have happened,' except there are no visual or audio cues as to when the show transitions into such moments. As such, at least in my experience, there are several moments of jaw dropping, I-can't-believe-that-just-happened ecstatic laughter in every episode.The writing is as sharp and precise as Louie's stand-up, of which live bits are heavily incorporated into the show. The casting thus far has also been great. Perhaps it's due to the direction of the series, but the acting seems far superior to that of the also hilarious Lucky Louie, even in scenes with actors from that show--exchanges between Louie and Nick DiPaolo, for example, are much more believable than the HBO series. Louis CK is by no means a world class actor, but for one who describes himself as a man who "hates acting" and is "bad at it," he delivers the goods more than well enough.I recommend this show to just about everyone. I would practically instruct any fan of dirty comedy to watch this show, as not only do many fantastic comics appear on the series, but the show has a sense of humor that seems distinctly tailored to stand-up comedy fans. FX allows for some coarse language, and the series takes advantage of that; however, the show is accessible for any adult with even a moderate sense of humor. Watch this show, and re-watch it again.
Louis CK is a genius and he once again proves it by making this miraculously humorous show.The humor is of the best kind - dry and effective, and Louie faces some real problems that are common for all of us at one point - aging and going through tough (but hilarious) changes in life... Seeing THAT from Louie's point of view is particularly interesting... The show itself is refreshing new gem in the sea of mediocre popular boringness that we see today on TV.Anyway, I think that this show is underrated and needs more reviews...Can't wait for the second season!


                
This show as everything else can be compared to other shows but it is its own in many ways. First of which can be said is kudos to Louis C.K. is he greatly underrated and should be a much more respected star. His comedy is genuine and honest and i know it sounds corny but his show feels very real the dialogue and the situations are how real life i think would be. I've heard it be compared to seinfeld but the only comparison is that there are clips of louie doing stand up, the actual show is nothing like it. Also id like to commend FX on giving it time to grow, they are a very good network for that, same with SUNNY IN PHILLY, that show grew into an excellent show. Shows get canceled to quickly. Anyways to sum up. Louie gets a 10/10, its just my opinion.


                
I watched this show for the first time last week after Wilfred (another great new show), and I must say - Louie is wondrously on a WHOLE new level. Where have I been?! Yes, the show is quite explicit, vulgar, and just plain dirty - all of which I'm not a huge fan, but the writing/dialogue depicts the everyday thoughts and issues that are really running in the minds of the rest of us, but we're just too afraid to speak our minds. That's what really amazes/captures me about this show. It is rough around the edges submerged with complex, bizarre, vulgar situations, yet the overall tone of the show is so...simple, mundane. This very stark contrast is not only captivating and mind-blowing, it is very intense and disturbing to the human psyche. It is just a whole new level of comedy. I am thoroughly and mindbogglingly wow-ed.


                
Louis CK began his career as a writer for various show's like the Ben Stiller Show and Late Night with Conan O'Brien. He also made several surrealist style short films which I highly recommend you look up on YouTube. With "Louie", CK has essentially perfected what he's been working at for over twenty years: short films/comedy sketches. While the show retains an overarching structure revolving around Louis' daughters and his stand up comedy, the actual content of the episodes can cover virtually anything CK chooses, a sense of freedom he clearly loves. In fact, in a recent interview with Jimmy Kimmel, CK talked about the inconsistencies on his show: how characters appear out of nowhere and then disappear, never to be seen or spoken of ever again. Why? CK lost interest or couldn't think of anything funny to do with them. Other shows require their less interesting characters to have scenes in each episode, forcing the writing staff to jimmy them into the plot just so the actor can have a line of dialogue. CK views this as an unnecessary formality that it's about time television moves on from. I heartily agree.If you enjoy laughter, watch Louie. If you hate boring, dull characters, watch Louie. If you're fed up with every character speaking like a comedy writer and having their conversations broken up by the requirement of canned laughs so that you, the stupid viewer, will know when to laugh, then watch Louie. Finally, if you like to ruminate on topics like inevitable death, the tragedy of aging, the annoying yet fulfilling requirements of parenthood, and then after much brooding, find yourself laughing at the absurdity of it all, then watch Louie. Because that's the show.


                
Is truth, I would not call this a sitcom. It is not sketch comedy either, so...what is this? I can not call it anything but genius. Brilliant comedy, in a creative format. I love this. SNV has said he is a great fan of Louis for make me watch him. I also not like to rate a ten, as like previous reviewer say. But I am forced to maintain an integrity? Yes! And, so, I must give highest of rating for this because I feel it is deserving. You will not know what to expect or how to expect it to be delivered on any given episode. Everything comes anew and is very refreshing. It is not stuck in format like most sitcoms and sketch comedies you find. I find those often bore. This, I am no bore, you see? I plan to watch until they cancel! They always cancel the 10/10 ones!


                
To preface - i am not one of those people who hand out 10 star reviews. I rarely if ever write reviews. With that said, here are my impressions of this modern masterpiece. I think it is quite evident that Louis CK has moved on to the next level of comedy with this shows efforts. I feel like he has reached a place where he is now not just a comedian, but a voice. He isn't going for gags (this guy makes being funny look so effortless). Some episodes you don't laugh out loud once, but come out of the experience thinking about what you saw, and the humor exists as a whole, not as individual jokes (it has those too though). It feels like he really has tried to say something about growing up and assimilating into adulthood together. It sounds so serious from my review - but not all of it is. There are so many moments that are just so funny you want to rewatch the episodes again. But, even as ridiculous parts of it are, you end up really caring about the Louie character, because it is so believable. I really didn't realize what a genuine experience the show was until the last moment of the last episode. It was like, tear inducing if you could believe. I really feel like it was a classic moment in modern TV, and I don't feel like I am exaggerating. The more I watch this show, the more I understand what he was going for, and the more I appreciate it. This will be one of those shows I come back to decade after decade, and will probably appreciate even more when i become a father.
Did I just watch the best ever series ever? Arguably yes! How does a comedy show get to this level of cinematic quality so it can be compared with modern marvels of storytelling such as Fargo, Better Call Saul, Silicon Valley or Twin Peaks: The Return?It's unique blend is dirty, raw, delightfully surreal, honest, touching and truly hilarious. I never would have guessed Louis had this kind of talent in him. It's so surreal that while watching I had to check if David Lynch was part of the production. No wonder he agreed for the cameo, he must be a big fan!For this series alone Louis C.K. shall be remembered as THE comedy genius of our time and not only for his killer standup specials. Mad kudos, Louie, I will forever love you for this!The horrible downside all this is that there's only 61 episodes so let's all cross our fingers and hope Louie will return for another episode of few! Or at least another standup special..


                
In a nutshell....It can be as funny and uncomfortable as Curb Your Enthusiasm, and maybe even more so. The big difference is that the show is heartfelt. Louie has a soul but his life sucks! Louis C.K.'s stand-up comedy is also shown throughout each episode. The show is filmed in sepia/dark tone so it has a somewhat depressing feel, which fits in with Louie's life. If you're expecting a lighthearted, silly show, you may be disappointed. It delves into some uncomfortable topics at times, but, it's always a topic worth considering. It remains as comically fresh and no-holds-barred as prior seasons were. As far as I'm concerned, Louie C.K. is this generation's George Carlin. Whereas Jerry Seinfeld points out the comic infrastructure of every potential situation, Louie shows us parts of ourselves we'd rather not look at. (Consider Vanessa's speech on fat women.) George Carlin made us blush (and made history) with "the seven words" -- Louie's observations make that bit seem tame by comparison. But that's Louie. Louie is about life. And sometimes life is messy. He makes us laugh about it. He embodies the mans mans and the comics comic! I can relate to him on so many levels in this series and this series is without a doubt terrain of, rather than comedy or drama or simply dramedy, it's simply life! Don't underestimate this man because you see him on stage with a mic with such offensive vulgarity to some. This man is a genius and makes very heavy emotional episodes that have very deep meaning. he injects a soul into this series that has such a pulse and it beats with a rare brilliance! This series is the best dramedy I've ever seen!


                
But its soo bad its good! There isn't a single episode that doesn't give me chills, make me sick to my stomach, unbearably uncomfortable, or hate myself for continuing watching this show. Its so wrong, yet so real, yet so surreal it feels fake. His acting is so bad that it feels totally unscripted and genuine..(and he actually says in many episodes and stand-up that he hates acting and actors bc its so fake). EVery episode leaves me saying WUT The FUQ did I just watch??!? And if that isn't good television America, I don't know what is..Ps I watch Always Sunny, Curb, Increasing bad decisions of Todd Margret, Arrested Development, and other dark comedies. Its probably my favorite genre. This is on a whole different plane of wrong. Mainly because it feels so real..yet impossible..wtf


                
Louie has so many stand out memorable and down right funny moments its hard to think of any off hand (though the Ricky Gervais doctor character had me falling off my chair and crying with laughter and the Chris Rock cameo had me in stitches). Safe to say sit back and be prepared to laugh til it hurts. This touching, personal, and incredibly open window into the life of a 40 year old divorcée living in New York is brutally honest and incredibly, so, so, incredibly FUNNY!If you like your humor intelligent with more than a dose of pure unadulterated filth you'll love this show!


                
this is the best American series that i ever saw.. I have always been a Louis CK fan and when this came out i was worried of not meeting the expectations i had from him. I watched it though and now i cant wait for the second season.It's different from every other clean-cut polished American series so its not for everyone, if you expect to see something like the other sitcoms that are there don't watch it.All in all in this series its clear that they left all artistic control to Louis CK and he made a fantastic job with everything and finally i love that there is no major casting and that no character except Louie appears in more than 3-4 episodes, this way he avoids all character relationship building scenes that are some times boring for the viewer


                
Louie made me think right away of Asian food. I've only eaten Chinese food about three or four times so my references aren't that broad. Louie is sweet and sour at the same time (the show, not the guy). It can be gut wrenching funny and gut wrenching sad in consecutive moments, or even at the same time. The ending of the second season is one of those moments where what is happening is so funny but the implications are at the same time so sad. Like when you see someone fall and get hurt. Really hurt. And that person starts yelling for help, but you can't stop laughing because she is talking all funny due to the broken teeth and severed carotid artery. That's how I feel about Louie.The show is pretty much the story of Louie, a comedian...Read more here: http://fb.me/1n7yg8cwy


                
This one is fascinating. When I started watching it I thought it would be much like Seinfeld. But it's been a pleasant surprise. Some of the themes explored are downright shocking but Louis C.K. treats them with subtlety and keeps the show real. Unlike Seinfeld, this show looks at some of the situations many of us would be too embarrassed to talk about, or too small-minded to imagine. The acting is great too, each character being played with just the right amount of meticulousness. Most of the other comedy shows are either character-driven or plot-driven. This one is reality-driven. Full credit to Louie for making me think back to the most boring, forgettable moments in my day and see the humour in them.


                
I've waited two and a half seasons to write a review of Louie. I watched it from the beginning, and re-watched each season during each hiatus. Every time I was engrossed and wildly entertained. It made me think and it made me wonder about how and why people do the things they do.We're all used to this artificial portrayal of human life when we watch TV or movies. Every person is utterly fascinating and clever and somehow always seem to drive a plot with every sentence. This is not like that. This is human interaction and life in its most honest form. You won't find fast-paced witty dialogue or 23 minutes of one-liners. If that's what you're looking for in a series, tune into the other comedies on TV, you'll be thoroughly entertained. Louie captures what is truly hilarious, interesting or profound about life, and he presents it organically. It all appears to happen by a series of infinitely numerous and infinitely improbable outcomes. And its because that's how life is. Life doesn't have a plot or a story-arc. Life is usually disappointing and uneventful, but its always interesting, there are always hilarious moments, and it always leaves you wanting more.


                
A brilliant and fascinating glimpse into the mind of comedian Louis C.K. who directs, writes, edits and stars in the show. The show touches on a wide variety of subjects, everything from same sex marriage and raising children to God (with the occasional fart joke thrown in there for good measure). Louis invites us to his absurd and alienating world and the result is surprisingly relatable. C.K. manages to create the funniest show out there and he does so without the use of sit- com-esq punch-lines instead he does it by tackling what makes him (and us all) uncomfortable with brutal honesty. Louie is a thought-provoking show constantly addressing new issues in unorthodox and interesting ways and never fails to make me laugh.


                
At first it looked a bit muddy, but when I looked closer I saw a sparkling gem. So different to the usual comedy formula, but so real, so human, so "from the heart", so good for the soul that you wonder why not more TV shows take those roads. After watching Louie I feel grounded and elevated at the same time. You have to watch at least two episodes, the pilot was the weakest of the six episodes I have watched so far. It gets better every episode, or maybe it is just me tuning in easier each episode. It feels a bit like when I discovered Woody Allen in my teenage days back in the 70s. So bad we have nothing like this in Germany.


                
Louie is in one word ingenious. The way Louis CK works with the format and the possibilities of television show are extraordinary and makes you revalue everything you have seen before it.The imagination and creativity behind, almost move me to tears. You can feel the love for the craft put into it and the wonderful acting and clever, funny, writing. The casting is simply magnificent...Louis CK experiments with crossing genres in the most fascinating way. Changing the pace and atmosphere of the show from situation comedy, to beautiful love story then to grasping teen drama... I can not even tell, how much I value this project and for me it will always be one of the best things I have ever seen.


                
The subway rattles through its motions, and Louie sits aboard, watching along with several other disturbed passengers a strange brown fluid lapping a precarious tide against the sides of a depressed seat-cushion. No one in the car wants to guess what the fluid is, everyone is grossed out by it, no one acts. Cut to black and white, as an inspiring tune akin to a tender moment from A Beautiful Mind begins to play in the background, and Louie, giving his head a shake, presses up onto his feet. Wide-eyed his fellow occupants of the subway car watch as, in slow and deliberate selflessness, Louie strikes off his long-sleeved sweater, kneels down, and mops up the strange brown substance... soaking the offending fluid up and out of their hearts. As he rises, martyr and saint, the looks on the subway car turn to glowing smiles of adoration and firm, knowing nods.. old ladies rising to embrace him and young men giving him their applauds. He stirs awake. The fluid is still there. Everyone's still watching it. He gets up and leaves the car. This is Louie. Sometimes it's silly, sometimes it's weird, sometimes it's highly dramatic, but it's richly infused with a dark, grounded, everyman sense of humour... a strange mixture of crushing cynicism and liberating hope. It's so much more than just a sit-com, and is one of the best things on TV today.


                
I have seen the first two seasons of Louie, and I just really love this series. It has an unusual format, and this same format and style allows it to flow naturally. It never really feels forced or unauthentic, and every single episode of the show is unpredictable exactly because Louis C.K. is able to tackle some of the similar themes in many episodes and yet still pump in real authenticity. You notice this especially in the second season, that although probably not as funny as the first, it breathes new life into the series. It's gotten to the point that it feels like the most sincere comedy series in a very long time, and its most subtle moments don't even hit you until you think back to them.


                
The reason I say that is because quite often you'll be laughing at this amazing show and suddenly reason you really shouldn't be laughing at something so wrong. That said, this is an incredibly good show.Louis CK is probably one of the best, funniest and most talented comedians working today, along with Ricky Gervais (who has an hilarious cameo by the way), and if you're a fan, this will not disappoint.Usually amusingly awkward and strange, often laugh out loud funny, Louie is a masterpiece of modern comedy. And while dealing with sometimes serious problems many of us have, Louie CK manages to find the awkward comedy in all of it.If you're a fan of Louie CK, or even if you are not but like dark comedies, definitely check this out. Just one quick warning to newcomers, if you're easily offended, avoid this like the plague, hahaha.


                
There is no greater connection then the one we can have with a girl(male perception observation) and Louie explains it very well in the 4-th season of this show,as every bit of frustration for the male character always leads him to his own self destruction and self pity while the female acts as a counter part to mellow out his brain and calm the ball(the females that really care about their guy really do this). Personally i experienced many warm laughs cause i expected this uplift after the terrible down spiraled situations from season 3 in which the main character was alone to decide many important things for his own future holdings.I applaud Louie C.K for his excellent acting,editing and honesty behind writing.


                
I saw just Louis C.K's stand up and it was just amazing so I started watching Louie.I just like that kinda of humour. I didn't read about this show and have no idea what to expect.Louie is very funny show,and not usual humour you seen in thousand other humoristic TV shows.It's quite unique, quirky sometimes,weird,and even in moments surrealistic.In later season (4) is more realistic and more bitter sweet and full happy and sad moments,but those are in same ammont so it's cool.Even people complain about season 4,it's just what has to be,life is not only full of joy but sadness. There is swearing and adult themes and uncomfortable moments but If you bothered by that,you need to just grow effin up.I'm totally addicted and I would be very very sad,like my whole family died in horrible accident,If Louie was ever cancelled.It would break my heart. I hope for at least 10 more seasons?Just saying... :)


                
