I was watching Rescue Me tonight, and I saw the previews of this show. I didn't know if it was old or new. I later checked on the cable box and saw it was new. I gave it a shot, and I was a bit surprised that there might be another great show on TV. While I am not going to sit here and say this is the next Seinfeld, it had certain feelings to it, like the stand up comedy part in the start and the end. But "Louie" seems more edgier and more explicit than Seinfeld's method of 'beating around the bush' of what they want to say due to restrictions. The jokes I would say are more like Curb Your Enthusiasm.I will not try to spoil much for those who haven't seen it, but the show is basically about a middle-aged man who has two children, both girls, and recently split up with his wife. He is a stand up comedian for a living, and while off the job -- he is looking for a rebound for his break up with his wife. His character symbolizes Larry David's to a degree, although I don't see his good will like Larry shows time to time, yet he's still a very sympathetic character and one who is easy to get behind.I love the comparisons to Seinfeld and CYE, because I think they are both excellent shows, thus I hope this show can use that type of formula but also be able to come up with some innovative and compelling ideas on its own. It's already did its main job with me: making me want to see it again. I am looking forward to see if this show becomes something epic or something that epic fails.Worth checking out, especially if you're a Seinfeld and/or CYE fan.


                
This is Louis C.K.'s semi-autobiographical surreal take on his family, his love life, and his stand-up comedy. It is inventive, insightful, and self-deprecating. It is different and FX allowed him great freedom. The seasons would come only when he's ready and he gives the episodes and length as he likes. It is one of the best written show from someone with his own unique voice. Sadly, it ends with his real life sex scandal. The show will never gain a future audience and quite frankly, I don't think I can ever watch it without being reminded of the scandal. The greatness is lost and I don't see it ever returning.


                
Wow! I just accidentally stumbled onto this show the other night and binged a few episodes to find that it is really good... like, REALLY good.Funny, well-scripted and I can't wait to watch the whole thing from episode 1.


                
---This review was written after watching seasons 1~3---I am not a big fan of stand-up comedy, so it's rare when I find a comedian very funny. Louis C.K. is one of those rare cases for me. But his series is something else entirely. The first season is some of the weirdest, most awkward, but funniest seasons in comedy I've ever seen. Dark humor, annoying (little) things in life, and with a healthy dose of surreal situations make for a combination I like very much. This is all loosely tied together with stand-up segments that are all very strong.Then starting with the second season, things get darker. More serious. The episodes feel completely different, and are less full of jokes. And a few episodes in you start wondering, "when is it getting really funny again?". It isn't. I mean, there are still jokes, and funny moments, but the series, starting from the second season, is more of a dramedy than a comedy. And at this point you're either intrigued by the stories and thematics and keep watching, or you get bored and stop. I kept watching, and it was worth it, even though the first season, in my humble opinion, is still far superior.I recommend watching the first season, then a couple of episodes in the second season decide whether you want to keep going or not.In the end: Season 1: 10/10 Seasons 2 & 3: 7/10


                
This show is about as understated as it gets. In fact, this show raises humbleness to an art. That is how it seemed to me at first, but as the seasons developed I grew to understand the continuous rhythm and juxtaposition of the elements of the series reveals a poetry that makes you feel more at home and appreciative of being human. It is definitely no ode to humanity, it rather tends to poke at society's shortcomings. Yet, at the same time it reveals the tenderness of the Individual who is unaffected by the trappings. Louis biggest shortcoming is that he judges himself as unworthy when confronted with an opportunity to compare himself to the rich and beautiful, elite New York society. In reality, Louis has it all and finds himself in more interesting relationships and situations than what one person is generally afforded in one day. It is precisely his lack of appreciation for his situation that makes it easier for me as a viewer to adore and be enthusiastic for his journey through the adult world.


                
one character is stand up guy(which is best part of show) who is witty and smart and second one is when he goes off stage and becomes total looser. there is no chance that smart guy like that can be such looser in real life. this is only coming from first several episodes so maybe that changes and i hope i didn't spoil anyone. checked spoilers checkbox just in case(cause warnings where pretty serious) and i also wanted to get to minimal lines by writing this, its my first review
I recently watched the entire series, but prior to that I had little to no real background on Louis CK. I found the show was similar to that of Seinfeld as it focused on the comedians real life as opposed to just playing a character on a show. In both cases its about the comedian and there day to day life. While Louis CK basically plays himself, he is really playing a version of himself. I found the show quite funny and it made me wonder how close to the character of Louie is Louis CK. I also wondered why I didn't know more about him before watching this show. I use to see him and thought he was some old man, but he is like 10 years older than I am. I feel we see a better version of the stand up comedian life than was portrayed in Seinfeld. Hell, even good old Jerry Seinfeld made a couple of appearances. Although in great Louis CK fashion, Louie was a disappointment to someone else. If you would compare the two, Jerry is a clean comedian and Louis is much more raunchy. I haven't seen enough of his stand up act to say he is raunchy like an Eddie Murphy, but he certainly talks about sex and masturbation a lot. Unlike Louie the Character, Louis CK is more than successful as a stand up comedian and actor/writer/producer. He has certainly made millions and he did make one hell of a show.


                
