Louis C.K. has found his voice. He's always been unaffected, without gimmicks, both as a stand up and as a comedic actor, but he now speaks and acts with near elegant confidence. His old HBO show "Lucky Louie" was original, edgy and often hilarious, but it was basically a sitcom, and even though it thoroughly mocked its own premises, it felt constrained by its traditional format. He was also quite raw as an actor and his rhythm was often awkward and rushed. But this latest project has him portraying a much more genuine version of himself and it takes its sweet time setting up and delivering its original punchlines. The humor now is very organic, arising not from slapstick absurdity but from honesty of character. Integrity is a word that just might pop up in a more competent review.Like Seinfeld who inter-cut his show with staged fragments of his live routine, Louie uses his nightly club sessions to vent his daily frustrations, but the mood and feel is very different because Louis C.K. is not just riffing on airline peanuts and oddly buttoning shirts. He's also describing his complex, often extreme reactions to being alive. His carefully argued opinions on the inane and demoralizing nature of modern urban life are brilliant. Taboos are the targets at which the better comics aim their lacerating wit most emphatically, and the taboo that Louis mercilessly eviscerates most is fatherhood. If his frequently profane and sinister comments on parenting weren't so poignantly true and uncomfortably familiar they'd qualify as grounds for denial of custody. His honesty in expressing just how tedious, cold, and bland so much of his waking time actually is only works to heighten the comedic impact of his concise eloquent rants. His pacing and timing are at expert level now, as he has relaxed into himself; his aging, decaying, disappointing self. That's the kind of truth that "reality" TV could never pick out of a police line up.The supporting players are all sensational and equally genuine. His friends, cohorts, and sociopath side kicks are marvelously candid and natural. Together they have some of the most entertaining, informative and enlightened discussions on life's more sensitive subjects. And they do it while exchanging great dick jokes. Pamela Adlon, who played his tough, often stressed working wife on the old HBO show, joins him again but now as a more crass and disillusioned fellow single parent. And the recurring visits of Ricky Gervais' maniacally demented doctor are sublimely outrageous, positively some of the most excruciatingly intense laughter I've ever experienced. That pudgy Brit is deranged!What else can I add to this near solemn memorial I've contrived for this most enjoyable, most satisfying show? Just the fact that it is without a doubt the quickest passing twenty two minutes of quality comedy I've ever enjoyed. Yeah, it flies by way too fast.


                
The more television comedy I write about, the harder it is to make me laugh. I seem to have almost become desensitised to mirth – far more likely to quietly and coldly utter, "That's funny," under my breath, than to clutch my belly and guffaw. But I have recently discovered an American stand-up comedian who makes me laugh out loud, consistently and uncontrollably, every single time I watch his show.It has taken a while for Emmy Award-winning Louie CK (Comedy Central) to establish himself on this side of the Atlantic, and I only wish it had happened sooner. Part stand-up show, part semi-improvised sitcom, this is a quite remarkable series, made even more remarkable when you learn that Louie not only writes, performs and produces this show himself, he also directs it and edits it as well.Louie CK shouldn't be anywhere near as funny as it is. It covers all the usual barn-door stand-up subjects that we're painfully familiar with: Sex, death, divorce. Jewish Manhattan angst. Seinfeld was churning this stuff out twenty five years ago, and by now it should feel stale and repetitious.But there's something about the way Louie CK does it that makes you feel like you're watching stand-up comedy for the first time in your life. Because Louie takes honesty to the next level.It boils down to this: Here's a 45-year-old, divorced white guy with two kids, who knows that pretty soon he is going to grow old and die. There's no escaping it. You can wrap it up however you want but soon we'll all be in a box. Which isn't funny. That's why it's funny.Louie knows that everything he holds dear is going to decay and fall apart – that the Universe, second by second, minute by minute, is returning to the dark, brutal, miserable, bleak chaos from which it evolved. Which is a truly terrible thought. But when Louis talks about it, it somehow it makes you feel glad to be alive.Your darkest thoughts and worst fears seem less frightening when some middle-aged, ginger schmuck in a T-shirt pitches up in a basement in New York City, and shares them with a room full of fellow human beings. This is comedy that is worse than self-depreciating. It is self-annihilating.Humour that ploughs the very depths of the human condition. Everyman comedy that goes right ahead and lays it on the line for every man, woman and beast on this planet, with a clear, central core message that is quite simply this: "We are all screwed. Enjoy." I never thought I'd hear myself say it, but this guy is as good as Bill Hicks. For all the same reasons. And there's a bonus: Louie is still alive. At least for a while.This week's episode featured a guest appearance from Ricky Gervais as our hero's wise-cracking doctor – a man who's idea of a joke is to tell you that you've got Aids, then say he's only joking, you don't really have Aids. You have cancer.Gervais has struggled to make me laugh since the heady days of The Office, but his performance in this episode was quite inspired – almost as if Louie has the magical ability to make the people around him as funny as he is.Louie CK is not for the faint-hearted. If you're easily shocked or you don't get vicious, gut-wrenching post-modern comedy then give it a miss. But if you're a living, breathing human being with a half-decent IQ, check out Louie CK. It's almost worth staying alive for.More TV reviews at Mouthbox.co.uk


                
Take a bow Louis CK. Not only are you possibly one of the most engaging, talented and funny comedians around at this moment, but you have this likability and watchability that makes a transition from stand up to comedy show utterly seamless. Louie combines the situational and often crass storytelling of a heightened version of himself that made Curb such a great show with elements of his incredible stand up routine; something that echo's the format of Seinfeld. Louis CK plays himself in all his glory. A divorcée with two unappreciative children struggling to balance family and his own personal life, in particular his difficulty with dating. If you have seen Louis CK's stand up shows, you'll be comfortably at ease with his crass take on things, with humour delivered incredibly close to the bone. His television show pushes as many boundaries as his live performance and we find ourselves laughing just as guiltily as we did when seeing him live. We see an excellent performance by Louis, showing he's a dab hand on the small screen too, as well as the supporting cast, who are not quite as recurring as we'd probably like. The overall feel to the show is very curb-esque and fans of that show will no doubt love Louie. It is consistently funny and often side splittingly hilarious. But there is such truth to it. The show comes from a place that I am sure all parents, the overweight and all mediocre looking people and many divorced, middle aged men will know too well. But even to those not in such categories, we feel just as much agony for Louis as anybody. Here is a 40 year old man who has all but given up on most aspects of life. In many way's he's simply waiting to die, but there is always that beacon of hope that is his children that somehow always manage to give him validity, no matter how irritating they can be. It's heartwarming, true to life and very. very funny. I cannot recommend this highly enough and have thoroughly enjoyed watching thus far.


                
Remember how the TV sitcom "Seinfeld" was considered a landmark because it was "a show about nothing" (or in other words, a show about the little things in life and how a comedian gets his material)? You know how in one episode of that show, George Costanza proposes the idea of a show about nothing in which solely consists of a person doing their regular daily routine (whether it be eating their meal, walking to work, doing their jobs, etc.)? Well, it seems that we've not only received this type of TV show a little more than a decade after "Seinfeld" ran its course, but we've also received a show that's practically like "Seinfeld" only with a much darker tone to it. This show is none other than FX's daring, thoughtful, and hilarious original comedy-drama series, "Louie". Like "Seinfeld", "Louie" centers on a fictionalized version of a popular comedian which in this case is Louis C.K. He is a recently divorced father who has to raise his two daughters in New York City. The show, as stated before, basically consists of unconnected story lines and segments that revolve around Louie's daily life tied in with his stand-up performances. In other words, the show tracks the unpredictably wacky events and people that Louie comes across on a daily basis that influence his stand-up bits. For example, one episode may consist of Louie traveling out of town for business. What might occur in that episode is Louie gets his plane ticket while someone else gets upset that their flight is cancelled, the plane flight gets out of control as if it's about to crash, and then the next scene everyone arrives safely. That's an example of what kind of episodes you can expect from this series. When compared to its obvious comparisons "Seinfeld" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm", "Louie" is a very dark show when you think about it. Although they are generally light, "Seinfeld" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" have dark elements in some of their episodes from time to time. "Louie" on the other hand, my goodness! This show deals with some pretty heavy stuff hence why I implied that this is a comedy-drama series. Where do I start? There's an episode where Louie confesses to his mom that he doesn't love her anymore, an episode where Louie reflects on how unpleasant Catholic school was for him, and even an episode where a girlfriend Louie makes collapses and then dies on New Year's Eve. Ha-ha- ha? In less mature hands, subject matter like this in a comedic television series would fall flat. But miraculously, Louis C.K. hits just the right comedic note between the light and the dark stuff that it fits. It helps that our main character is already a sad sack with his divorce and his other various broken relationships. What's interesting about him is that he somehow finds an easy way to be satisfied with life. "You just have to want a really s***ty body", he says in regards to how he keeps being satisfied with his health. Pretty brutal honesty there, isn't it? But let's face it, there's definitely some truth to whatever he says especially when it's similarly harsh stuff like that. Life does work or fail to work in mysterious ways for all of us, Louie included. One of the best parts about "Louie" for me is its profoundly honest ideas about life. After seeing an episode of this show, one can better understand how challenging dating women really is. I mean I wouldn't be surprised if some people decided they will permanently remain single after seeing this show. The reason is that dating is more punishing with its failures than it is rewarding with its successes, especially considering there's more failures than successes with dating. The show does a fantastic job at avoiding predictability and overused formulas with each and every episode. I love it when a TV series does that since it shows ambition from the writers and shows that the creators want to try many different things with their characters. Even if not every episode in this series works (particularly when it involves one too many excremental/ sex joke or awkward situation), you have to at least respect the effort and genuine thought that was put into the rest of the series. I love the episode when Louie is offered the opportunity to replace David Letterman on the Late Show. On top of the clever comedy involving the boss's broad directions to Louie, the ending stays true to the tone established by this series. That tone being dream-crushing and reassuring both at the same time. It's not every day a comedy-drama TV series like "Louie" is on the air and I'm all the more grateful for its existence. I admire how it takes a concept similar to "Seinfeld" and makes it its own unique thing. The central character is one I think many lonely single men will immediately be able to relate to. Most of the jokes hit their targets and are very well timed. When the show gets into dark territory, it doesn't shy away from the brutality of the darkness but it also manages to balance out the lightness really well. I honestly think that it's probably the best comedic series on television right now. There's no doubt in my mind that I'd easily watch this over every other comedic series currently on the air. While it's far from cheery and fluffy, I can't deny a well put together show when I see one.


                
I was a fan of Louis CK before this series started, so when I heard about it I was looking forward to seeing it.Well, the first thing I discovered was that the show is not exactly comparable to his stand up comedy. It took me a while to get a feel for the show, because at first it was hard for me to watch the comedian I admire portray himself as a loser so much. He really makes me believe that what he is showing is the real him. After a while I realized that whether that is true or not, it's actually pretty awesome by itself.What I think is so great about this comedy is how he displays things many of us can probably relate to to at least some degree. He is this extraordinary ordinary guy, even though he plays himself (the celebrity), who is trying hard to live a normal life, but has a tough time doing so. He does his best, but always saying or doing the worst possible things, but in an incredibly well and sincere way, making it hard not to cringe while watching, while the honesty really gets to you.I didn't see a strong connection to Curb or Seinfeld in the beginning, but there definitely is. It's the same kind of comedy, but from the perspective of somebody who actually gives a crap.


                
I've been sitting here trying to come up with a word that best describes 'Louie' and 'honest' is the best I could do. This show is a comedian's life for all to see and it's surprisingly not that different from yours and mine. I never thought that the life of a simple unremarkable man could be so engaging and funny when seen from different eyes. I guess the thing I liked the most about the show is how it doesn't try too hard. It doesn't try too hard to make you laugh or to rope you in. It's like an art in the museum that speaks to you even though it doesn't and you get sucked in. The show's just there and you just keep watching it and a few episodes in, you'll say to yourself "yeah man, that's so true" and it'll probably hit you then what a masterpiece Louis C K has created. Louie is like a painting without all the artsy paraphernalia. It's like a perfect stroke of single colour (life) by an anonymous artist. So, if you're looking for a show that'll make you laugh your eyes out or a show full of witty one liners, this is not for you. It's for the people who rejoice in simple things and don't mind admitting that you've no control over your life but still strive hard to be better at their jobs, at being a better father, a better friend. To me the show says "this is my life and this is how I go about it" and that's it. It doesn't preach you about living your life a certain way, to start eating healthy, to hit the gym, to do your chores and embrace all your duties happily. It's just a show about a man and I hardly think it's important that he's a comedian, living his life. I am going to go ahead and call 'Louie' the best depiction of life. If somebody asked me "what is life?" I would hand them the DVD set of this show as an answer. 'Louie' reminds me a lot of Woody Allen's movies and it's because there's a common thread,' New York'. Now, I am not an American and have never been to the States but from what I've seen in the movies it's pretty evident that people from New York truly love it there. The romanticism that Woody Allen shares with New York was pretty evident in his movies and I think it holds true for Louie too. The show is shot beautifully and you get to see why it is that this city has captured the hearts of so many people All in all, 'Louie' is a great show and I can't recommend it enough. So, if you are alive and healthy watch it.


                
I've always been a fan of stand-up comedy. When done right it can soar beyond the confines of comedy and become an observation and bitting critique on society. Louis C.K.'s stand up does just that. It is not only hilarious but rubs salt into many of society's wounds in a refreshing and brutally frank fashion as it also unconftroubly exposes the fears and hidden desires of many everyday man - from single to married with kids to divorced and back around. Based on the strength of Louis C.K's brilliant stand-up, I expected a great deal from his comedy show. What I got was nothing at all what I expected and the show is all the better for it. I feared that it would perhaps be in the vein of "Curb Your Enthusiasm - which is a brilliant show - but who wants to see the same show again starring a different character? Well, Louie is nothing like any other show I have ever seen, it's a beast of it's own. And beast is a good way to define it. It's brutally honest, uncompromising, crass and very funny, but it is also tender, realistic and poignant. The show's first season was really great, but Season Two elevates the show to an all new level. It becomes more focused, more tightly wound and it's themes are darker than ever. And despite all that, it is still unspeakably funny and bravely experimental, It«'s hability to navigate through the ridiculous and the sublime is awing. Then why four stars and not five? Because despite it's bravery, the show sometimes steers from problematics that were gracefully presented trough the course of one full episode but that get dropped without any explanation or continuity. For example, there is an episode where he buys a house way out of his price range so that his kids have space to play and be generally happier. But that is never brought up again throughout the rest of the series and it was an issue ripe for exploration and further development. In another episode, one of his sisters dump his niece on him and he has to take care of her. Towards the end of the episdoe he is given a piece of information that suggests that he will have to take care of her for a much longer period of time but on the next episode she's gone. These continuity issues where also found in Season One. For example, the actress that plays a woman on a date with Louie during which he is hummiliated and bullyed by a young man is the same actress who plays is mother in another episode of the same season. I know that Louie does it on purpose, as he stated at one point that he did not care for continuity, that he was more concerned with whatever message or laugh a specific episode aimed for, but it does feel like a cop-out sometimes. Continuity issues and occasional cop-outs aside, the show is still an amazing piece of work.


                
I can't even give it a good or clever review, it's taken advantage of me (sexually) on too many levels. Sorry, I like it. His kids seem like decent people. The timing is perfect. I feel horrible when I watch it. I feel as though that is deserved. I'm sorry daddy. Can't I still grow up like that, and still like Lady Gaga? What're you doing here. Picking up college pussy. Timeless that's all I have to say. It's not a matter of good or bad, never has been if it has it would be ugly. This is life. On screen. At it's best.You can open an envelope, but it's still an envelope. A box is a box but a box is still a..probably shouldn't say. Cant write enough. Wait, sorry, he can't write enough. I can't have enough fun. It's a pleasure to be here. I mean, I don't think of it as just masturbation. I don't care but it's easy it's fun and nobody gets hurt. Everything I do is outside of his context. We Have sex, and he probably masturbates. Napoleon and Shakespeare masturbated.


                
Really great little storyline with a deep meaning for us all, especially those struggling to balance everything out and stay good guys. David Lynch is, as always, superb. Jerry was on the money - great to see him again in something so tight. Good writing always rules - wish more people appreciate it! So many cool moments in this episode, I think this is the best so far in the series. One of the themes of Louie is the issue of success/achievement in life today. This story-line nails a healthy perspective on this theme. I wonder if we will see this story- line revisited with, dare I say, Mr Letterman himself in the future. We can hope. Really interested to see how the season ends. Hope Louie gets some more good stuff in his life.


                
This tv series make me sick and it is great. This tv series literally black humor. you find a lot of fun scenes in this series.


                
