In his autobiography, The Name's Above the Title, Frank Capra said that until It Happened One Night drama had four stock characters, the hero, the heroine, the comedian, and the villain.What Capra did and you might notice he followed that in a whole lot of his films, the characters of hero and comedian are combined. Not completely though because Claudette Colbert gets a few laughs herself, especially with that system all her own. But in doing what he did for Clark Gable's character, Capra created a whole new type of screen comedy, the classic screwball comedy and It Happened One Night surely set the mold.Capra's autobiography told the story of the making of It Happened One Night which in itself could be a movie. Capra worked for Columbia Pictures which at that time was a minor studio, along the lines of Republic or Monogram. As Capra tells it he had a vision about this story that Samuel Hopkins Adams wrote and persuaded Harry Cohn to buy it. Capra also had a stroke of good luck. Adolph Zukor at Paramount and Louis B. Mayer at MGM were looking to punish a couple of recalcitrant stars, Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable. The idea was to show these two what it was like to work in a small budget studio without all the perks of Paramount and MGM. In fact the description of Gable arriving to work at Columbia that first day, drunk as a skunk, is priceless. Capra dressed him down good and said that to his credit Gable came to work afterwards and couldn't have been more cooperative.At some point Harry Cohn at Columbia was convinced that maybe Capra had something. He had in fact delivered for Columbia the previous year with Lady for a Day. So the publicity drums were beat.The rest as they say is history. It Happened One Night won the first Oscar grand slam, Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Actress. It won the first Oscars Columbia Pictures ever got and lifted it right into the ranks of the major studios. And it set the standard for screwball comedy.The film could never have gotten off the ground were it not for the chemistry of Gable and Colbert. They're together for most of the film so if it doesn't click between the two of them, you have people walking out in droves. Colbert had already played a wide variety of parts at Paramount, ranging from Poppaea and Cleopatra to comedies with Maurice Chevalier like The Big Pond. Gable had played a whole lot of tough guys on both sides of the law at MGM. It Happened One Night showed he had some real comic talent, a flair MGM exploited in his roles from then on in. Gable and Colbert did only one other film together, Boom Town for MGM. You can't get much more different than those two films. Boom Town had a huge MGM budget, Spencer Tracy and Hedy Lamarr as well, and a lot of special effects involving the oil industry and hazards therein. It's also a great film, but it's not a classic like It Happened One Night.


                
IHON rightly earns it's place as one of the greatest romantic comedies in film history. A pioneer of the screwball comedy genre, it holds up very well 71 years after it was made.It's a classic tale of the battle of sexes- something that is still so relevant today. We follow the story of spoiled heiress Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert), who jumps ship from her father's yacht (literally!) in Florida after an argument with said father (played by Walter Connolly) over her marrying wealthy playboy King Westley (Jameson Thomas) without her father's consent. Ellie is on a mission- to get to New York to King Westley. But how will she do it? That's how Peter Warne (played by a delightfully handsome Clark Gable) comes into the story. Recently fired from his newspaper job, Peter meets Ellie on the Night Bus to New York, and, realizing who she is (Her story is all over the news, after all!), offers to help her get to NY and Westley if she gives him an exclusive story- to win him back his job. And so the fun begins. Colbert and Gable have great chemistry as the mismatched couple thrown together after a series of unusual circumstances. The trip isn't a smooth one- and we are taken on a wild ride with Peter and Ellie, which gives us great scenes such as the doughnut-dunking lesson, Walls Of Jericho and the now-classic hitchhiking scene. The humour is still fresh and fast-paced over 70 years later. Oops, I almost forgot the classic 'no undershirt scene' where Gable sexily gives Colbert a lesson in how a man undresses, to reveal (shock horror!) no undershirt, but a bare chest! This had a bad effect on the sales of men's undershirts, which dropped dramatically after the film's release (One of the first examples of product placement in film). Great supporting characters, particularly the scene-stealing Oscar Shapeley (Roscoe Karns). Of course it has it's faults- all early talkies do. But any faults are outweighed by the great story. Technically, it was well-made for it's time.IHON won 5 Oscars- Best Picture, Best Director (Frank Capra), Best Actress and Best Actor for Colbert and Gable and Best Adaptation. It deserved all of them. Funnily enough, both Colbert and Gable didn&#8217;t want any part in the film at first- I bet they changed their viewpoint after the surprise success and the prestigious Academy Awards they gained for it. It's been said that a number of Disney characters like Bugs Bunny, Yosemite Sam and Pepe LePew were inspired by characters in this film. A classic, a must-see, a great movie.


                
This sweet comedy never loses its appeal.  Claudette Colbert is a spoiled young girl who meets a wordly, attractive newspaper reporter (Clark Gable). In the beginning, she treats him like a servant, but he never knuckles under to this behavior.  The interaction between these two is very romantic and humorous.  It is the classic portrayal of what may be called "sexual tension."  He takes care of her - does not take advantage of her - but makes her realize that her wealthy background cannot carry her through as a human being, she has to earn his respect by treating him with respect.  There is a scene in which the two of them are forced to hitchhike, and their "breakfast" is only a handful of carrots plucked from a garden they were lucky to find.  As Gable stands at the edge of the road and Colbert is perched atop a wooden fence, his wisecracking posture is said to be the inspiration for the beloved cartoon character Bugs Bunny.  This is a must-see for every one who loves old movies, and entertaining for all.


                
In my college film class we had begun watching "It happened one night". I was laughing my head off. But of course my professor stops the movie right when it was getting good. After that, I wanted to see this movie so badly. My father lucky enough had the movie. I watched it and it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Clark Gable is histerical. He really does a great job in the film. I always did prefer the old comedies to today. Do you blame me? If you watch the flick, you will enjoy it. This is one of the first romantic comedies. It'll send all the others to the back of the bus. I would higly recommend this movie. It's a classic.10/10


                
I was inspired to think of other films with completely mystifying titles. `The Phantom Menace', obviously.  Also: `The Shop Around the Corner' (around the corner from WHERE?), `The Empire Strikes Back' (it doesn't), `The Living Daylights', `True Lies', `Batman Forever', `Species', `The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp' ... if anyone has any more suggestions, please send them to me.In this case, it happens over several nights, and I'm not sure which particular night is being referred to.  Probably one of the candidate nights is less unobvious than the rest; so I guess the title isn't COMPLETELY mystifying.  But actually, Capra gives us the feeling that everything is up in the air.  Everyone knows that the hero and heroine of romantic comedies are bound to get hitched in the end - in most cases it's simply a question of staying awake.  But Capra makes us feel the contingency of it all.  I, for one, was convinced that right up until the final moment, it could have gone either way.  How did Capra manage this?  Was it because he was a complete innocent; or was it because he was remarkably sophisticated?  I don't suppose it matters: it's results that count.I'm glad to see very little mention among the comments about the sexism of it all.  The characters have life; their words have life; and if such art as this could only be produced by a sexist society, it's almost worth creating a sexist society (and then dismantling it), in order to get the art.  In modern romances I get the feeling that the writers are wearily writing `feisty' lines for the heroine in an attempt to fool feminists, who, by and large, aren't so easily fooled.  Claudette Colbert isn't feisty.  When she DOES assert her independence, she means it.(And, of course, when Clark Gable asserts his dominance, HE means it.  You don't get sincerity like this these days.)Anyway, the ideology of a film, if there is one, is always beside the point, except inasmuch as the ideology is AESTHETICALLY attractive or unattractive. This is an attractive film.  Two real individuals, a real story, some misunderstanding but no tiresome or pointless misunderstanding, constant wit - and, as I expressed amazement at earlier, constant suspense.  And if THAT isn't enough to get you to watch it, note that it was released in 1934.  The Hayes code didn't come into effect until 1935.  Not a moment too late.


                
In Miami, the spoiled socialite Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert) is trapped in the yacht of her controller father, the Wall Street banker Andrews (Walter Connolly), who has just annulled her secret marriage with the snobbish aviator King Westley (Jameson Thomas). Out of the blue, Ellie jumps overboard and swims to the shore. Andrews hires a detective agency to find her and offers a 10,000 dollars reward for any information about his daughter. But Ellie pawns her watch, buys some clothing and a bus ticket to New York to meet her lover. She seats side- by-side with the cynical reporter Peter Warne (Clark Gable). However, when a thief steals her purse with her money in a bus stop and Ellie does not report to the police, Peter recognizes and blackmails Ellie, asking her to travel together with him. He promises to protect her and in return he would write her adventure to meet King Westley. Along their journey, Ellie falls in love for Peter; but when he vanishes from the motel where they are lodged and contacts her father later, she believes he was only interested in the reward. In the end, love triumphs and the wall of Jericho falls. "It Happened One Night" is another delightful and charming romantic comedy of Frank Capra. The romance of a cynical reporter with a spoiled young woman is very funny despite being naive and dated, with witty dialogs, and the chemistry between Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable is marvelous. The cinematography in black and white is wonderful with magnificent use of lighting to highlight the lead couple. Last time I saw this classic was on 29 January 2003 and this is the third time that I watch this film, now on DVD from Columbia Distributor, and I highly recommend it as one of the best romantic comedies ever. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Aconteceu Naquela Noite" ("It Happened that Night")


                
Capra's 'It Happened One Night' is a fascinatingly shot romantic comedy. It has the 30's feel but at the same time I am surprised that such skill was used in the making of this movie during the 1930s. The camera-work is brilliant as it brings out both the spatial feel and the crowdiness. the long shots are effective and I liked how the scenes change in a sideways 'flip' mode. There's always something about the driving scenes of old classics that amuse me. Clearly the background was shot separately and then projected on to a screen during the shooting of the film while in the foreground the actors are just seated in a car pretending to drive. While the background scene changes, the viewer keeps tuned to the wonderful dialogue between the actors. Needless to add, the film's got fantastic dialogue.Capra also brilliantly gives us a glimpse of the 30's American society, especially focusing on gender and class status. The difference between the upper class rich people and the common ordinary man is shown by their use of language and their non-verbal behaviour. Yet, in a way the film is also ahead of its time. Ellie isn't just some clichéd damsel of the 30s. She is strong-minded, stubborn and smart (albeit slightly naive). She is one who fights for what she wants rather than giving in easily. Perhaps this is also one quality of hers that attracts Peter but at the same time their funny quarrels also indicate that there is a an equality in gender status (which was something women were struggling with in those days).The characters are very well etched. Peter and Ellie were a lot of fun but I also liked how Alexander Andrews (played excellently by Walter Connolly) was written as the rich father who's got all the money but all he wants for his daughter is her happiness. Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert are great together as they match wits and display warm chemistry.'It Happened One Night' has become an instant favourite, one that I definitely plan to revisit.


                
Peter, a washed up journalist, accidentally bumps into Ellen Andrews, a spoiled daughter of a rich guy from whom she ran away, on a bus while taking a trip to New York. He offers to help her hide from her dad if she agrees to sell her story only to him. But on their way to New York they fall in love...There are many old classic film that are excellent but leave you with a "Yeah, great...but I expected something else" feeling. But "It happened one night" is one of those films that leaves you amazed without any reservations. I was neither a Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert or a Frank Capra fan before I saw this road movie, which won 5 Oscars, but after I did I became of fan of them for life! The story here is so damn simple that you may at first think that everyone could be able to pull it of, but when you think about it you will realize that at the same time it's actually very clever, carefully written and touching.------------- Take this scene for instance. Ellen is looking in front of herself while a burglar steals her luggage behind her back. She doesn't notice anything but Peter sees this and runs after the burglar. Ellen, still not turning around, is wondering where he is running of to. After a while Peter, all tired, returns and says: "He got away...!" And Ellen not knowing what's going on replies: "I don't know what you are talking about!" That's a perfect example how someone is trying to be a gentleman and ends up as a fool. But this is actually a film more touching than funny. After a while the spoiled Ellen shows her gentle side and realizes that she loves Peter. She says this to her father in tears because she thinks that Peter doesn't love her. So incredibly magical and yet so simple. It's incredibly high grade of 9/10 on the site rotten-tomatoes.com is justified. Too bad almost all TV stations are keeping this jewel of air for decades! No wonder my generation is trapped in a vicious circle of violence, drugs and alcohol. They never got a glimpse of such previous generations with a soul and such raw, honest and touching beauty like "It happened one night" which exceeds the human mind.Grade: 10/10


                
It's a true call that they don't make the movies as they used to. There are very less movies coming near to the brilliance of "It Happened One Night". This movie is about a rich brat running from her home to get married with her lover, accompanied with struggling free lancer reporter in her journey. And in the journey they fall for each other. The romance building between two of them is nicely depicted and the blend of Peter Warne (Gables) arrogant personality gives it a nice stir. The story of the movie is very interesting and the comic attribute added by both Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert is sufficed to make anyone laugh. The perfect direction from the master of his domain Frank Capra takes the movie on highest level; because of this it's the first movie to be honored with all major five Oscars (Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Movie, Best Director and Best Screenplay).


                
"It Happened One Night" happens to be my personal most favorite film ever. It was an adapted screenplay (by Robert Riskin), from the short story "Night Bus" and was directed by Frank Capra. With a simple story, plot, modest budget and a very short four week production schedule, this film goes a long way. Director Frank Capra obviously knew the story to tell and how to tell it. Some of the best films are made in a surprisingly short amount of time and on a modest budget. This film followed what Capra hoped would be a critical and box office success. The hopes were low for this film, even after securing stars Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert for the lead roles. Columbia Studios was not well respected at the time in Hollywood."It Happened One Night", 1934, had a relatively small budget for it's time: $325,000, of which Claudette Colbert asked for and received $50,000 for her role. A star receiving this much of the total film budget was unheard of during the 1930's. Released during America's Great Economic Depression, the film had excellent timing and proved to be a big critical and audience hit. All the right elements came together. It had a high quality comedic screenplay with believable characters in believable situations. A film where luck and chemistry came together, producing a film that exceeded the expectations of everyone involved, including its' director Frank Capra.The film comes across as light hearted and natural and with excellent timing and pacing. For it's time, this style of film was new. It would be one of the first of a new genre: screwball romantic comedy. Winner of five Academy Awards in all the major categories: Best Picture, Director, Adapted Screenplay, Actor in a Leading Role and Actress in a Leading Role, was a first in Hollywood history. Only two other films have swept the five top Academy Awards: "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", 1975 and "The Silence of the Lambs", 1991.Claudette Colbert was quoted as saying: "I just finished the worst film ever" on "It Happened One Night". She had no idea how well the film would be edited. The film editing here is subtle and sublime. Colbert and Gable achieved that rare and special screen chemistry in the film. Colbert's demand that the film needed to be produced in four weeks, because of her vacation schedule, actually created the lively pace of the film, working in it's favor. "It Happened One Night" is a fine example of a quality screenplay, some good luck and a lot of chemistry, all coming together, producing an enduring and enjoyable comedy classic.Clark Gable comes across as completely natural and very entertaining. The fun had while making this film shows partly in Gable's performance. Unfortunately, he would not be cast in a comedic role again, even after the big success of this film. The studio system of the time demanded stars remain type-casted. For Gable, that meant macho romantic leading action man.To me, "It Happened One Night" is the best ever romantic comedy film, a gold standard for it's genre. It's lost none of it's charm and naturalness since it's release in 1934. The look of the film dates it, but it still delivers it's original naturalness, charm, wittiness, timing, pacing and entertainment value. Just about a perfectly made film.


                
'It Happened One Night' must have put on a smile on Depression-weary audiences way back in 1934. Over 70 years later the magic still works, due to the terrific combination of Gable, Colbert and director Capra.But it almost didn't happen at all.Both Gable and Colbert tried desperately to get out of doing IHON. In fact, it appeared no-one in Hollywood wanted the parts of Peter Warne and Ellie Andrews. The tiny cash-strapped Columbia Studios was making this film with an untried comedy formula, it looked a certain flop. Pfft. How wrong everyone was. IHON swept the Academy Awards, taking home all of the Major Awards, including Best Actor and Actress Awards for Gable and Colbert. It established the screwball comedy genre, and the careers of it's two stars and director Capra.Why is it so good? Well, it has remained so fresh over the years that the laughs beat out almost every modern romantic comedy. It doesn't have to rely on smut or toilet humour to satisfy the audience, just a classic battle of the sexes we can all relate to. It's witty, the dialogue is snappy and fast-paced and the acting is near perfect. So let's have a closer look at the plot of this gem: Spoiled heiress Ellie Andrews (Colbert) has just defied her father by marrying society aviator King Westley. Her angry father wishes to keep Ellie away from her unsuitable husband and whisks her away on his private yacht. Daddy hasn't counted on Ellie's tenacity and will- fed up with the fact her childish hunger-strike is going nowhere she literally jumps overboard. When back on dry land she tries to make her way back to her husband by bus trip. A series of unfortunate events bring out of work newspaper reporter Peter Warne into her life. Cue the battle of the sexes! She has no money so she must accept his help; he knows who she is and to land the biggest scoop of his career he must deceive her whilst also helping her get back to Westley. But problems arise when the pair inevitably start to fall in love.This film is just the tonic that Depression audiences would have soaked up. The parodying of the rich is sublime, you can't help rooting for Gable who is a fine representative of the underdog. It also has it's risqué elements that I'm surprised got past the Hayes Code that had just been enforced. In particular, Gable's sexy lesson to a shocked yet interested Colbert on how a man undresses and the final 'breaking down the walls of Jericho' scene. When Gable undressed to reveal a bare chest with NO undershirt, sales dropped off dramatically. This would be one of the earliest examples of product placement in film.Some of my favourite scenes: the donut-dunking lesson, the piggy-back ride, Gable and Colbert's mock fight and the justifiably classic Hitchhiking scene. Colbert beats the cocky Gable at his own game by proving that SHE doesn't have to use her thumb to pull a ride. Instead she shows a bit of leg and stops a vehicle, much to the horror of Gable. Great stuff!This film almost single-handedly established the great screwball comedy. Colbert's Ellie is the ultimate screwy dame,paving the way for Lombard and Hepburn in the genre, with Gable's Peter a direct forerunner to the Fredrich March character in the screwball classic 'Nothing Sacred' (1937). This films holds a very important place in motion picture history.Best of all, it's so enjoyable.10/10.
OMG... this film so hilarious, clever and sweet. It has original story and fresh idea about romantic comedy. Clark Gable really did excellent job to bring this film more live. He is so funny, clever, and comical. Everything that he is doing in this film look so natural and funny. Definitely one of Clark's best performance. He really deserve an Oscar for his performance. Chemistry between he and Claudette Colbert very delightful and cute. Just simply romantic. Bravo!!!


                
This movie was truly revolutionary when it hit the silver screen! "It Happened One Night" swept all four major academy awards back in 1934!! Best Actress (Claudette Colbert) Best Actor (Clark Gable) Best Director (Frank Capra) and, of course, BEST PICTURE!! Why was this movie considered so promiscuous and avant garde? Basically because of all the covert innuendos, and the lewd insinuations which gave every indication that, even back then, sex was not just for pro-creation purposes!! When dealing with the demons inside of your typical red blooded American male..What exactly was it that they had to do to assuage their consciences anyway? Now presides the proverbial instance of a "gentleman" having his cake and eating it too. This is not really possible!! Not for a "gentleman" anyway! The classic scene in this movie was predicated on Claudette Cobert's actions being of her own volition.. The necessary bed sheet in the most classic scene in "It Happened One Night" was construed as a case whereby Clark Gable knew the repercussions of such an ensuing fate without the presence of this symbolic divisiveness!! This film definitely delves into the euphemisms which imply that something had to be done to quell such a precariously enticing and comfortably volatile situation!! Without overt barricades, it would be something other than spiritual growth that Clark Gable would have to worry about!! This film broke ground on the wilder side of male's hormonal nature!! The reciprocating movie audience had a thorough comprehension of what the potential chicanery was which loomed on the horizon! Clark Gable's wiles were emerging and ready to surface!! AFI has listed this as one of the top 100 films ever made in the history of the American cinema. This does not surprise me, the issue of carnal desires always evoked a sordid curiosity with the average movie viewer!! The innocence of maverick movie making entertained the movie audience with this film's innocuous approach!! Being candid about the whole situation, it stands to reason that chivalry has to contend with the formidable foes that are related to the innate and lecherous desires of lonely men!! Frank Capra directs this film, and it goes without saying that Capra is a remarkable director... His list of outstanding movies is endless! "It's A Wonderful Life" gets the star lighted accolade of being his stellar mantel piece trophy!! The acting in the film "It Happened One Night" was fantastic, and the entertaining double entendre to everything made this film very enjoyable!! By today's standards, of course, this film would not be considered sexually suggestive in any substantial manner whatsoever. However, given the fact that this film was made in 1934, "It Happened One Night" became the harbinger of things to come with the advent of depicting how sexual indiscretion can proliferate once Pandora's's box is opened!! Wonderful movie!! The talent in this film is utterly astounding!!


                
It Happened One Night is one of the most entertaining films that have ever been offered to the public. The story is about a runaway heiress (Claudette Colbert) who falls in love with a reporter (Clark Gable) who is chasing her across America.The film is a highly successful and influential romance, the first to use buses and motels as background and still come up sparkling. The palpable chemistry between Gable and Colbert set the template for romantic comedies and screwball comedies in the years that followed. In 1993, It Happened One Night was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."
The first film to sweep the main categories of the Oscars (of that time - 1934) was IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT. In it Clark Gable plays Peter Warne, a newspaperman who is having problems with his boss Joe Gordon (Charles C. Wilson), when he latches onto one of the big scoops of his time. Willful Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert), the daughter of millionaire Alexander Andrews (Walter Conolly), has fled her powerful father's yacht, in order to reach the man she claims she loves, an aviator named King Wesley (Jameson Thomas). Ellie is very strong minded and snobbish. She has common sense, but her will sometimes overcomes it. Peter hooks up with her on a bus that is going from Florida to New York. He soon lets her know that he knows her identity, but he will assist her if she will allow him to write of the bus trip for the newspaper.Capra movies are fun because he did not hesitate to throw in pieces of Americana into them. Here it was bus travel. The interstate highway system that we know of today really dates back to the 1950s (possibly it was the most useful internal achievement of Eisenhower's Presidency), but more and more roads between states were being built in the 1920s and 1930s due to the growth of the use of automobiles. However, Mr. Andrews (well played by Conolly as a stern but loving father - and a good judge of character: he doesn't think highly of Wesley), concentrates his agents at railroad and seaport (and even airport) depots and stations. He doesn't think Ellie will travel in such a plebeian manner as a bus. The bus is driven by Ward Bond, who has a nice, simple comic scene with Gable where all Bond repeats like a dummy is "YEAH?", to which an increasingly confused and befuddled Gable is forced "YEAH!!". The passengers are a mixed bag, and include Roscoe Karns as a heel and opportunist, and several others who entertain themselves singing "The Man On the Flying Trapeze". Ellie finally shows her humanity giving away most of her money to aid a boy and his mother who are so broke the mother fainted from hunger.Early trailer parks are shown in the film, as well as the rest stops of the 1930s (note a brief moment when a man in great distress makes a very quiet request for information to a waiter - he is told the comfort station is in the back). It's interesting to see a film like this to catch the changing scene in America in the 1930s or any period, and the things that we now take for granted.My one partial criticism of the film as it is it that Wesley is never really built up as a villain - although he is obviously a fortune hunter. He has some celebrity as an aviator (this was the age when men and women of real stature became public figures for aviation achievements: Lindbergh, Earhard, Post, Gatty, Hughes, Amy Johnson, Doolittle, Turner). But even Gable (admittedly jealous after he falls for Ellie) calls him "the pill of the century". As a stunt at the wedding ceremony, Wesley lands an auto-gyro on the lawn. Mr. Andrews feels it's silly. But for real villainy in the story, we are left with the treacherous Alan Hale (in one sequence) and Karns as a lecherous and greedy pest.That true love finally wins is to be expected. But the journey of Ellie Andrews and Peter Warne is a colorful one that takes us back to a moment when auto travel on the east coast was still quite a little adventure. The film won best picture, Capra best director, Gable best actor, and Colbert best actress. Ironically Colbert, a fine actress, never won another Oscar, and Gable (whose signature role was Rhett Butler, not Peter Warne) lost that Oscar of 1939 to Robert Donat (and lost the 1935 Oscar for Fletcher Christian to Victor MagLaglen). However, Peter Warne added more than an Oscar to Gable's legend. His scene where he undressed in a roadside motel room in front of Colbert revealed he did not wear an undershirt. Sales in men's undershirts declined precipitously for a number of years as a result.


                
Movie Review: "It Happened One Night" (1934)At the evening Acdemy-Award ceremony of Wednesday, February 27th 1937 at the Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles, California founded in 1923 comes along the first Hollywood motion picture able to prevail at today's standards in speed, screwball wits, action as comedic beats by the minute, which only flaw has become not being in splendid "technicolor" receptions; nevertheless to stay relevant to this day as one of U.S. American motion picture milestones, if not to say the "Best Picture" of decade 1930s in favor of world-war-traumatized generation, when Hollywood under the ingenius direction of Frank Capra (1897-1991), pulling all the strings with privately "high-rise" as Columbia Pictures exclusive-contracted actress Claudette Colbert (1903-1996) playing richman's daughter Ellie in utmost spoiled brat supremes, who becomes the infamous often copied hardly reached character of a runaway bride, when also Academy-Award-winning actor Clark Gable (1901-1960) as Peter, the hungry New York journalist out for another hit story is stealing this high-end Hollywood showcase running with a "Clean-Sweep" whole circle win concerning five Academy-Award nominations equaled by five Oscars trophies, including for both leading actors, director Frank Capra and the production fully ingnited by Hollywood major Columbia Pictures (founded in 1918); in occasion only matched two times after in "Oscar" history concerning the four major catogories by independently-produced "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" starring Jack Nicholson & Louis Fletcher directed by Milos Forman und Orion Pictures co-financed successor to Michael Mann's "Manhunter" (1986) "The Silence of the Lambs" (1991) starring Jodie Foster and Sir Anthony Hopkins directed by Jonathan Demme (1944-2017).© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Often, I don't bother reviewing films with a bazillion reviews already or films that are classics. After all, what could one more review contribute? However, I have a reason to finally review "It Happened One Night". Tonight, I watched a god-awful mess called "You Can't Run Away From Love". Why? Well, because it starred Jack Lemmon and I almost always like his films. Sadly, after a few minutes, I realized it was a musical remake of "It Happened One Night". And, sadly, it VERY closely followed the original--and that's the problem. Seeing Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert in the original is charming and both fine actors were at the top of their game. Jack Lemmon and June Allyson (especially Allyson) were pretty bad--and it's so apparent when they are parroting Gable and Colbert. It made me appreciate the original so much more! So, if you are bored and have nothing to do, do NOT watch the remake!! Watch "It Happened One Night"--even if you've already seen it before! The film is charming, funny and sweet.


                
I will soon be riding a bus of my own sometime. If Clark Gable as Peter could find a rich young lady who could fall in love with his witty, charming, eccentric and sometimes rough around the edges personality, then maybe I can nab myself a girlfriend by the end of this trip. I just hope my experience lines up more with Peter's than that of Roscoe Karns' Shapely, but I'm not much of a talker like him, so I *should* be in the clear.


                
It Happened One Night is an inspiring classic romance that have been influencing modern days romances. If you want to chill and enjoy an inspiring story, this is the right movie for you! Though this movie has the classic cliche approach of a spoiled lady with super rich father, you will still be able to get unexpected elements on this story. Very interesting interactions between the 2 main characters. For me it's a 10 for all it entails.


                
The film, which is not easily formed. Courage is directed by a "careless" comedy at the time of the Great Depression. Capra shows people romantic story at a time when people forget themselves. In spite of the initial disbelief succeeds in doing. It's hard to do a screenplay that is not popular. A spoiled rich girl and talkative journalist. Two disgruntled actors. Clark Gable had to accept a role as a punishment of his studies even though he was keen scenario. Claudette Colbert has often stated that it is the worst movie that is recorded.From so much dissatisfaction and anxiety gave birth to one of the best comedies of all time. At least I think so.In addition to the set design, sound and atmosphere, which are excellent by the way, Capra is managed with two different human character and an average storyline to create a masterpiece. Modern story about falling in love with a slight but pronounced sexual segment, socio-economic differences and excellent verbal duels was hit. ting is a segment that is the film gave the necessary strength.The story is a human and humorous and not even a single moment is not superficial. Disgruntled actors have made one of the best chemistry in the history of cinema. The motif of the opposition, and sending each other two different, intelligent, good-looking men used a million times, but the best effect is achieved in this film. Colbert creates vibrant Ellie, naive, inspiring and inspired by the desire for the ultimate freedom, while Gable is brilliant in the role of journalists, symbols of freedom in American pop culture treasure ridden most acceptable of marriage - alcohol.This movie is still overwhelmed by its freshness and grandeur, and each modern replica acts pale and superficial. "IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT" is a true classic in the true sense of the word and the jewel of the genre, which day by day slowly disappearing.


                
This movie might be the first great romantic comedy ever. Despite its age (1934), there is virtually no overacting from any of the participants. That aspect alone helps me to understand how and why this movie took Hollywood by storm that year and swept through the academy awards.Clark Gable is fantastic as a newspaper reporter who has a great story drop right in his lap when he gets on a bus with runaway heiress Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert.) From the moment Gable appears on film, (calling his boss from a pay phone while he's drunk), every scene from then on is a classic to this viewer. Not a single missed step does Capra take. Claudette's confrontation with Oscar Shapely from Orange, NJ is classic as is Gable's confrontation with him later. The scene where everyone on the bus sings 'The Man on The Flying Trapeze' is a gem. The scene where Gable & Colbert are forced to get a room for the night and Clark introduces the 'Walls of Jerico' as well as the donut dunking lesson the next morning and the plumber's daughter, and on and on.Gable & Colbert are magnificent together. Capra, Gable and Colbert deserve every single award they received for this movie. It's an absolute masterpiece.


                
This is the Best comedy/romance ever written, it is a must see for film buffs. This movie helped me realize why Clark Cable was so popular in his day, and claudette colbert is perfect at the spoiled daughter trying to run from her father.


                
NO monsters, no aliens, no explosions, no car crashes and no color. So why watch it? Because in this young guy's view, they don't make them any better.Clark Gable portrays a real man's man. Every guy turning 18 should be tied to a chair and forced to watch this film. Clark drinks coffee, black, from a real coffee cup - not a fufu paper device with a plastic top folded back and a cardboard band so not to burn your tootsies.Gables emotion and passion explodes in this film. He's a smart aleck, drunken, stubborn newspaper man willing to give you a fight if you cross his path. And he finds a girl who can sock right back (Claudette Colbert). First film to win Oscars for : Best Film Best Director Best Actor Best Actress


                
This film is worth viewing more than once.  It has so many great elements, but the comedy, I would have to say is definitely top notch.  If you don't fall in love with Clark Gable after this film, I would have to say that you must not have a heart.  He's witty and charming.  I also love Claudette Colbert.  She's feisty from beginning to end.  Her energy rules the screen. I highly recommend this film.


                
It Happened One Night, aah, I love it sooo much! What a great, brilliant, wonderful film. Clark Gable, one of America's greatest legends, turns in one of his two best performances of his career (along with Gone with the Wind, of course!) and is perfectly matched by the hilarious and spunky Claudette Colbert. Frank Capra directs, but avoids the sentimentality that some dislike in his Jimmy Stewart classics, Mr Smith and Wonderful Life. Hilarious, crazy screwball comedy, one of the best (or the best) romantic comedies ever made. Peter and Ellie are a match in heaven!


                
