Based on all the historical accolades, I decided to watch this "classic". After enduring to the bitter end, the most flattering thing I can say is that the camera appeared to be in focus for the full duration of the film. I'm willing to make concessions given the cultural differences of the time periods, but I can't imagine that peoples innate senses of humor and romance have changed THAT much. I mean really, did folks back in the day think dissertations on dunking donuts and piggy-back rides were funny? I realize the players in older films can be exaggerated and caricatures, but the obnoxious male bus passenger was just too much. It was one of many cringe-worthy scenes that left me wondering if the art of writing screen plays was in it's infancy. Incidentally, who didn't think Peter's terrorist threats against the bus guy's family were a howler! I'm still laughing at that one?!?!As for chemistry between the two stars, distilled water appears more reactive. Peter was a self-righteous grouch who wanted some dream "dame" who likes to frolic on the beach and look at the stars. Who wouldn't want a guy like that? She..., come to think of it, I don't remember anything about her desires or ambitions. Her facial expressions and lack of anything resembling passion were confusing. There was nothing to like on either side. He wasn't an appealing character and she was boring.I will say the movie was funny as an audience participation event. When Peter ran and caught a car to retrieve his belongings from a film-flam man, I couldn't help busting a gut. Either the cars were very slow in those days, or the cigarettes they were smoking really did make them more fit. Either way, there were several "incredible" circumstances in the movie that had me chuckling.I suppose the movie wasn't a complete waste of time, but I'm still wondering what happened and on which night?


                
Societies undergo phase changes...like the change from water into ice.The year 1934 was perhaps the middle of one such phase change in the US: national Prohibition was gone, it was around the depth of the Depression and the paternalistic Hays Code was on its way in with full force. Silent films were dead, 'talkies' were here to stay -- it allowed us the chance to laugh and sing along with the actors in the film. What could have been better in such dismal times?Looking at it that way, one can see why "It Happened..." was showered with adoration. But it just doesn't resonate today...there have been additional phase changes in the interim.In terms of content, this is watchable only for Gable's performance, who towers over everyone else here. Simultaneously, he smirks for the audience in recognition of his own power. The plot pinballs off of the newspaper headlines, which keeps the mood light.However, in form, this offers nothing as a *cinematic* experience. There's no change of perspective from our day to day world...it could all be played out on a stage. Heck, you could turn your back to the viewing screen and follow what's going on from the audio content -- like a period radio show.It's for this astounding lack of cinematic qualities that I must rank it so low. If you want a far superior and more effective example of visual storytelling, go with Hitchcock's "The 39 Steps".


                
