So, this woman marries a guy her father doesn't like. He kidnaps her and imprisons her on a boat. She makes a daring escape, swims to shore, pawns her watch to buy some clothes, and slips past her father's goons at the bus station. On the way to New York, her remaining money is stolen and a fellow passenger takes advantage of her situation to subject her to a further barrage of verbal and physical abuse.And every step of this process is supposed to be FUNNY? This would have made a perfectly good nightmare thriller, but as humor, it's about as appealing as the musical-comedy version of Rosemary's Baby. I guess people had a lot of anger built up during the Depression, and venting it on women seemed like fun.
I finally got around to watching this and didn't find it funny at all. I may have laughed twice in the whole movie. It's quite clear that the leads, Gable and Colbert, didn't care for being in it, and neither character is very sympathetic at all. It seems very paint by numbers, and just ambles along. I have to agree with Claudette Colbert, who couldn't understand why it was and remained so popular. I found it quite overrated and can't hold a candle to many other comedies to come out of the 30's. Also to call it screwball - well let's just not.


                
I watched this movie in my Film & The Humanities at my college. And I found it dull and a dread to watch. It's a competently made film with good production design and solid actors working on it. But the rotten core of this film is with its two main characters and how they unnecessarily complicate the story. The movie has actually had a pretty good setup as a woman, Ellen played by Claudette Colbert, betrothed to a king runs from her father to be with her fiancé. Upon going bus to bus to get there, she meets Clark Gable's character named Peter who's an egotistical, newspaper man. At first their chemistry is fun. But where this movie really started rubbing me the wrong way is how controlling Peter is towards Claudette. I get it, it's old-fashioned but with the demeanor Gable gives the character, it feels unhealthy. She doesn't seem to enjoy it either, nor does she hint or explicitly say so. For a character that made an active decision in escaping from her father, she doesn't play an active role through nearly the rest of the movie. Like I said, Peter takes her and pretty much dictates all her actions their on till a certain point til' the end. Their chemistry mainly involves them being snappy with each other. I felt no amount of dialogue or character actions made me learn anything new or significant about these characters. Therefore, I struggled to make a connection with them. Plus, there are many problems in the story that felt very contrived and forced (especially towards the end). So many of these problems feel like they can be solved with simple character dialogue. And I understand many of these tropes are very garnered to old styles of film. But considering the vast amounts of movies that do a far better job capturing romance, this movie only shows how much we've gotten better at it. If you can deal with these tropes, all power to you. I just could not stand it and it really was killing my patience.Overall, this movie has a great actors, good production design, but it severely lacks in the character/character department and it severely suffers from that. Especially with these obnoxious tropes instilled into it. I'm giving this one a 3 out of 10...


                
It's a dumb film, enamored with its own cleverness when it's only half as clever as it thinks it is. Clark Gable plays an even more insufferable pretty boy than his usual shtick and Claudette Colbert plays a melodramatic archetype of the hysterical damsel. I hate both of them and I kept wishing that they would both get caught and the movie would just end so it would stop trying to get me to root for them. Detracting from my hatred a bit, however, is some very nice cinematography as well as some interesting and neat ways of incorporating the Great Depression setting without detracting from the main story. Some of the jokes landed quite nicely although most of them were either too dated or portrayed with too much hammy acting to get a laugh or even a chuckle. I'd give it a 4.5/10 as well as a sticker of essential American Cinema since I now know the origin of about a dozen running gags in current film and television.


                
