I enter every movie viewing with energy and delight, and this time was no different, but by the time that thing was over I was angry. I am shocked that this is a classic and won so many awards- shocked, to an extent. I'm aware that society was ~different~ back then but I can't just ignore the blatant sexism prevalent in films from this time. In the same way that a racist movie would infuriate me beyond my ability to ignore for entertainment's sake, the disgusting misogyny in this film made it nearly unbearable. People say, "it was a different time!" but I don't care. It's disgusting now, it was disgusting back then, and no art/entertainment gets a pardon just because it was a hit when it came out.Despite this film having a female lead, she was nothing but a plot device. How the main character could make a total of ONE decision of her own within the span of an entire feature film is truly beyond me. Summaries of the film cushion the plot with things like, "she agrees to help him if he keeps her secret" but in actuality this was a woman on the run from a controlling father who was threatened with violence into giving that sleazy reporter a story or else he would give her up to that controlling father. Literally romanticized Stockholm's Syndrome. This is described as a romance movie but there was nothing romantic about it. This is a movie about men wanting a woman to do what they want instead of what she wants. The word "demented" popped into my mind multiple times while watching in reaction to things these men would do to her.The characters were really annoying, all of them. The things that were supposed to be romantic were just gross. There must be a million ways to make a story about a runaway heiress, you know? It's an interesting premise but it was executed incredibly poorly, with totally unlikeable characters and multiple disturbing dynamics in play. Plot holes so enormous even the male lead's gigantic head would get lost in them. Professional appearance, decent sound, standard cinematography- not a particularly artistic film. Weak story, poorly told, no character development besides developing them from strangers to creepy, controlling jerks. I hope no bizarre situation occurs in which I am ever forced to watch this again.4/10 Bye love you


                
From my fairly dissatisfied point of view, the absolute highlight of this decidedly disappointing "Screwball" comedy from 1934 took place within the first 15 minutes when wealthy bank Pres, Alex Andrews, so rightly slapped the face of his snitty, snotty, snooty, spoiled-brat daughter, Ellie. (And, boy, did she ever have it coming to her!) I can't begin to tell you how much I wished that this royal, high'n'mighty bitch had gotten her over-lacquered face slapped a few more times, but, of course, it never happened.Over the years I have heard (time & again) people literally falling all over themselves, raving away to me about "It Happened One Night" (IHON) being the ultimate "be-all-and-end-all" of Hollywood, screwball comedies.Well, I must say, that after giving IHON a fair enough view, I couldn't believe how petty, small and downright trivial its sappy story was.Not only was there absolutely no on-screen chemistry, whatsoever, taking place between IHON's 2 co-stars (Clark Gable & Claudette Colbert), but, I thought that Colbert's character (Ellie Andrews) was positively despicable and I couldn't have given a wet fart about her "poor-little-rich-girl" problems.And, not only that, but, Colbert (who was 31 at the time) was clearly way too old to be playing this part which would have been more suited for a younger woman of about 20.I am absolutely shocked out of my socks that this trite, little, nothing-of-a-movie actually swept the 1935 Oscar presentations by scoring for itself 5 of its prized awards in all of the top categories of "Picture", "Actor", "Actress", "Director" & "Screenplay".Back in "Depression Era" America IHON might have thrilled and delighted its audiences to literal pieces, but, today, 80 years later, its apparent charm & appeal (which doesn't hold up very well) got completely lost on this here viewer.All that IHON came across as being was just a completely contrived, clichéd and predictable story whose attempt at cuteness and coyness left me utterly unmoved.From my point of view, this rather flat and tired "Boy-Meets-Girl" Comedy/Romance was, at best, only mediocre entertainment.


                
