This is a pleasant, funny classic that shows it age only slightly, and that has a lot of scenes you can look forward to each time that you see it. Gable and Colbert each get roles that are nicely suited to them, and are well-remembered for their performances.  The supporting cast also rounds out the picture with some good character acting.The cross-country trip on the bus and via other assorted methods is fun to watch, with several nice vignettes that complement the main story line. (The atmosphere on the long bus trip is done especially well.)  The plot is of course not meant to be taken too seriously in itself, but it comes in very handy for setting up good characters and comedy.It all comes across as effortlessly entertaining romantic comedy, with some classic scenes and characters you learn to care for in spite of their mistakes.


                
It Happened One Night is one of those films that is so classic, and on so many `must-see' lists that I actually assumed that I had seen it at one time or another.  It wasn't until I actually looked into the film when I in fact realized I hadn't.The first film to sweep the major categories in an Oscar ceremony, It Happened One Night spins the story of a young spoiled heiress (Colbert) who marries a shallow, yet dashing aviator.  She is then swept off by her father who takes her on a cruise; convinced that time away from each other will cure her infatuation.  Instead, she escapes by jumping out of the boat and swimming to shore where she begins her journey from Miami to New York, where her husband awaits.  The film quickly turns into an `on the road' flick at this point when she meets up with Clark Gable, a down on his luck reporter who offers to help her for the exclusive rights to her story.  Mayhem inevitably ensues as one thing after another goes wrong during their adventure.I'm a little hesitant to completely agree with the general assessment that It Happened One Night is a screwball comedy.  Of course, there were certain moments that were hilarious and overdone (the scene when Gable and Colbert pose as husband and wife to share a cabin for the night is absolutely rich) but the majority of the remaining film is clever romantic comedy with fairly even performances by the principles.  Perhaps there is a sliding scale for screwball comedies, with It Happened One Night being a two and a film that I feel personifies the genre, Bringing up Baby, as a five.
Whatever its classification, It Happened One Night is a charming film that backs up its merit as a multiple Oscar winner.  It is one of those films that may not be completely profound or deep, but is important nonetheless if anything, for its place in film history.--Shelly


                
Released in 1934, Frank Capra's 'It Happened One Night' ushered in a new era of Hollywood film-making <U+0096> the screwball comedy <U+0096> and made Academy Award history in the process. It became the first film to be awarded the top five awards on the night (Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress and Screenplay), a feat that remained unequaled until 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975)' and 'The Silence of the Lambs (1991).' As I watch more of his films, Frank Capra is fast becoming one of my most respected directors, with such classics as 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' and 'It's a Wonderful Life' ranking among my favourites of all time. This screwball comedy, however, posed a certain problem, since I've never been a huge fan of the sub-genre. Whilst I had enjoyed such films as 'My Man Godfrey' and 'His Girl Friday,' they hadn't really offered anything other than comedy. This means that they did a good job of making us laugh, but never really inspired any other emotions <U+0096> which isn't necessarily a handicap, but doesn't appeal to my tastes.Happily, I'm able to announce that 'It Happened One Night' did surpass my expectations, and I found it to be a wonderfully-enjoyable, very touching romantic comedy. The first half had left me feeling a bit uncertain, since it reminded me of just about every other 1930s comedy I'd seen, but then Frank Capra did what Frank Capra does best: he put a lot of heart into the film. After building towards a perfect fairytale ending, Capra suddenly snatches it away, slowly but surely stacking the odds against our hero. However, the director has never been one to leave us with a downbeat ending, and, when love finally prevails, it feels twice as triumphant. Of course, crucial to the film's success are the two lead performers: Claudette Colbert and Clarke Gable, playing characters of completely polar characters. As story runs its course, we slowly watch their relationship transform from completely dislike to acceptance to romance, and it never feels forced or artificial (despite a reportedly tense atmosphere onset).The plot of the film was based on the story, "The Night Bus," by Samuel Hopkins Adams. Ellie Andrews (Colbert) is the arrogant, spoilt heiress of a wealthy father (Walter Connolly). After she marries the rich but unprincipled King Westley (Jameson Thomas) against her father's will, Ellie strikes off to New York to be with the man she loves, and her desperate father launches a state-wide attempt to retrieve her. It is on a night bus that Ellie strikes up a frictional relationship with fired journalist Peter Warne (Gable), whose only initial interest in the stranded girl is a good newspaper story. Probably one of the best "road movies" ever made, 'It Happened One Night' also has a few twists in the usual formula which have guaranteed its enduring stature. For example, Ellie's father is revealed not to be an evil overbearing demon, but is, in fact, shown to be a very kind, reasonable and loving man, who is only trying to guarantee the best for his daughter by ensuring that she marries somebody with principles (King Westley later gives up the girl without a fuss, compensated by a tidy sum of money).Much to my surprise, I'd never seen a film starring Clarke Gable before, but he really was a revelation. Never taking any situation too seriously, and delivering every line with confidence and a hint of amusement, Gable is the laid-back every-man that the audience can relate to, a stark contrast to Colbert's conceited and ungrateful upper-class rich girl. My favourite scene took place after the night bus accidentally ran off the road, with the shifty passenger Oscar Shapeley (Roscoe Karns) threatening to reveal Ellie's true identity. Fearing that his exclusive story could leak into other hands, Peter Warne declares himself to be the gangster who kidnapped Ellie, threatens to harm Shapeley's family and then chases him into the night. Interestingly, I followed up my viewing of this film with a 1939 Lux Radio Theater broadcast of the story, introduced by Cecille B. DeMille and once again starring Gable and Colbert. This recording can be found, if you're lucky, as a special feature on the 'It Happened One Night' DVD, and it's well worth a listen.
Ellie Andrews is the daughter of a Wall Street mogul. Her father is highly protective of her and isn't pleased when she elopes, marrying a man she hardly knows. Ellie runs away from her father sets off across country to get to her husband in New York. On the bus she meets a recently-fired reporter, Peter Warne. The two don't get along but, figuring out who she is, and knowing that her father will have every route into New York covered with private detectives, he offers to help her get to a husband. In exchange he wants an exclusive on her story. The two tag along together, getting through some interesting adventures. Over time they even get to like each other...A gem of a film from legendary director Frank Capra. I was expecting a rather standard romantic drama but It Happened One Night is so much better than that. Warm, and hilariously funny at times, it's certainly not your average romantic comedy. Dialogue is incredibly fresh and snappy and even the romantic side is not straightforward, keeping the schmaltz to a minimum and taking some unpredictable twists and turns.The great direction by Capra and the solid script are aided by wonderful performances from Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert in the lead roles. The chemistry between them is great and their delivery is spot-on.Both Gable and Colbert received Oscars for their performances, as did Capra for Best Director. The movie was the well-deserved 1935 Best Picture Oscar winner.


                
A spoiled heiress (Claudette Colbert), running away from her family, is helped by a man (Clark Gable) who is actually a reporter looking for a story.In this film "a pampered socialite tries to get out from under her father's thumb, and falls in love with a roguish reporter", which, you know, is something that happens when spoiled daughters discover that they want to live like common people and do what common people do (like go to supermarkets).The film was the first to win all five major Academy Awards (Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress, and Screenplay), a feat that would not be matched until "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975) and later by "The Silence of the Lambs" (1991). And it is not really surprising when you see it... besides, it is Clark Gable and Frank Capra.So, this might not be as outright funny as other films, and even as far as screwball comedies go, it sort of lags behind "The Awful Truth" with Cary Grant. But Clark Gable has a debonair charm to him... from the very beginning he has that attitude about him that women mysteriously love. I am a little confused about the laid-back approach to marriage and annulment, but this is a romance, and that is not uncommon... if anything, it shows how fickle the socialite is.Overall, a very enjoyable film. Not my favorite of the era, but well worth a watch or two. And heck, if such a film can inspire the creation of Bugs Bunny and entertain Joseph Stalin... can it be so bad?


                
The first movie to sweep all the major Academy Awards, this film is still popular today. That's probably so because the dialog between the two stars of the picture - Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert - is just great. Those two make this fun to watch. I enjoyed it, however, much more on the first viewing than subsequent ones. It lost some of its zip after I knew what to expect. The ending, too, was very weak. Over the last 20 minutes, the two stars go their separate ways (until the very end) and the story gets very stupid.The nice romance that had developed between the two seemed to have disintegrated when Gable left one early morning (for good intentions) but didn't tell Colbert. The latter thought Gable ran out on her. Hollywood, in films of the 1930s and 1940s, loved to have romances in which confusion abounded and everything was misinterpreted for the worst....until the happy ending when the truth somehow would surface. That same theme was in here, along with yet another trivialization of marriage, another common theme during the classic era. Colbert says it herself in one line, mentioning she doesn't care for this other guy, but what the heck, might as well get married, what's the difference? Huh?If the scriptwriters here would have just kept the "road" part of this film going longer - with Gable and Colbert trading barbs - it would have been super. Gable has the best lines an is the most fun to watch but Colbert can hold her own. She looks really pixie-ish and cute, although most of her closeups are done with a fuzzy lens, another habit of filmmakers of that era had with female stars. One of the film world's most famous scenes is in this movie: the hitch-hiking scene in which the cocky Cable explains the different ways of successful thumbing in order to get a ride....and gets nowhere while Colbert, on her first try, gets a car to stop immediately after she lifts up her skirt! That is still one of the great comedic scenes in movie history.Overall, this is still one of the best comedies of "The Golden Age," even with its faults.


                
A cute love story that rivals any of the cookie-cutter romantic comedies of today. Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert play very well off of each other. Sure, it's cheesy in parts, but that's what makes these older movies so much fun.


                
I recently read a statement that cited something like the test of a good mind is the ability to hold two contradictory thoughts simultaneously. Upon analysis, one can apply this notion to practically anything related to human experience; from concepts as far-ranging as politics and religion to those as close to us as human relationships. Since I had recently seen Capra's marvelous It Happened one Night I was reminded of the moment towards the end of the picture in which Claudette Colbert declares her love for Clark Gable.I was trying to understand the thought processes of Gable as he lies quietly, but obviously engrossed in his own mental meanderings. Here is the crux of a situation that has been preparing itself, falling towards a desired end since the inception of Gable's desire for Colbert, and yet, he questions the entire situation. As one with emotional cold feet: not wanting to remove his shoes in case the wet sand gives him a cold.The strength of his character shows us his childishness; whereas heretofore it was a staple element of Colbert's personality, now it is he who doubts the validity of the next move. And the move must come, as in all denouements where there is a clear sentimental frisson.But what if his thoughts per se? Is he thinking as groom, a father figure, a reporter, or just simply a man? Should the self-imposed 'Walls of Jericho' that have hitherto stood firm fall? Should they collapse in a rapture of passion? To be honest, I do not really believe that the 'act' is as important as the preamble. For me, the whole of It Happened One Night is like a road-hogging foreplay in which desire builds into love but out of a deeper understanding between teacher and student figures. One could argue over the continuity in the nature of Gable?s character toward Colbert; the fact that their relationship shows clear evolution has more than amply been recorded elsewhere; but my question now returns to the original premise about 'the ability to hold two contradictory thoughts simultaneously?'.Gable understands what he is getting himself into. He also understands what he has had to, and will have to go through to both let go of his previous existence as a sassy and streetwise newshound, and to accept a future with this girl who represents so much that he has up to this point detested in his life. Just as Capra had to deal with extremes of class, so too does Gable now find himself having to come to terms with himself in relation to his own class-consciousness.The morality lies in the basic 'goodness' of mankind; not the submission to the premise that all 'upper-class?' people are the same or have the same moral standards; no. Worse: that he may have been wrong all along, that he may actually be able to do something about it, and worse yet: the dawning on him as he lays on his bed behind the 'wall?' that he has already succeeded.Whereas the analysis of film usually extends to its length in feet; the analysis of the human experience can usually humble the mise-en-scéne, especially when the characters are shown to be detailed, complex and deep. Although by today's standards some may analyze Gable and Colbert as being somewhat simplistic, one cannot (and should not) hold current moral values in a social framework up to the lights of 1934's scrutiny, the two as a pair are as rich and meaningful today as they were all those years ago. Furthermore, the processes that burrow through Gable?s mind at hearing simply 'I love you?' when they come not melodramatically, but as the most important words he has wanted to hear.Ironically, the words interrupt his reverie and he clams up almost childishly, hoping but not wanting to hope that he will hear those words. His retorts, sending her back to her bed, reminding her that she is married, his dream-like vociferation of the perfect girl who seems so near and so far are leading him closer to the identification of self. That he might actually be ready to go further with her. That the consummation, not through wordplay but through physical action, is about to happen, lead him, as previously stated, into two minds which by extension, to his two worlds; as reporter and as future husband. All of these dualities (a cold feet of the mind) lead him to the eventual awareness that he is, in fact, juggling with opposing concepts, feelings, worlds, options and although they at first seem contradictory, are nonetheless worthy of him as a person. He is the richer for it, despite what it can cause him in the future.The concept is timeless, the inner-conflict likewise. And this is but one small reason why It Happened one night must rate as one of the greatest films ever made.


                
Spoilers herein.This film is fun. Clark Gable has some great bits, including some with `Shapeley.' But along the way, it demonstrates a couple theories I have about successful films.The first is that the actors are often the last ones to know what a film is all about. They have a different set of concerns than the filmmaker. Sometimes this is taken advantage of by the filmmaker, who exploits the unwittingness of the actor. The Coens do this all the time: they'll have one actor who is clued in and at least one actor who is not and there is a several-layered goof on the target.Here, Ms. Colbert walked through this picture more or less as the character she played: completely at the mercy of forces around here but believing she was in control; absolutely oblivious to the actual manipulations at work. She thought the picture was bad, a well known story that. But I think that except for the few cases where the actor is the only attraction (think of the bombastic performances of the latter DeNiro or Pacino for instance) the actor and filmmaker are working at crosspurposes.The second of Ted's laws is that nearly all successful stories includes itself in some referential way. This is a (movie) story about a (newspaper) story. The people engaged in the creation, the reporting of the movie are mirrored in the characters engaged in similar reporting. This is a pervasive narrative device, so much so, I've decided to write a book about it.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
It Happened One Night is renowned, the extent of which I was not aware till my husband and I were watching 'Bandits' (with Billy Bob Thornton, Bruce Willis, and Cate Blanchett). Bruce Willis puts the blanket up on a string between them on the bed and Cate Blanchett says, "Oh, like from that old movie!" I automatically said, "It Happened One Night." "What?" Says my hubby. "The movie, 'It Happened One Night'." "That's in a lot of movies, babe." Says he. "Yes, but it's the original. Clark Gable strung it up and called it the walls of Jericho, and in the end, when that wedding that Bruce (in Bandits) is referring to taking place at the end is his and Claudette Colbert's, and then they 'bring down the wall'." I now am on a mission to add this to my NetFlix list so I might better edify my hubby on the subject. A definite must-see or, if possible, must-own for any movie buff. Witty, at times slap-stick, and charming in a way movies today simply are not. And for the ladies, a chance to see a handsome 33 year old Gable.
It's a pretty good romance-comedy. I think some of these modern romance comedies, need to have their producers look back at this film as research, on how to make a good film. Still, why the title? Nothing happened one night? The movie takes place over several weeks, it appears. They first met one night, sure, but it didn't take a night settling to have them, fall in love. I like the title to be, Night Bus like the book by Samuel Hopkins Adams, in which the movie is based on. At less, that makes kinda more sense. Directed by Frank Capra, the movie is told through a screwball comedy that has the two leads engage in a funny battle of the sexes where the woman is often dominating and the male character is often challenge in the masculinity sense. You have to love the fast-pace repartee, farcical situations, and escapist themes here. It's hard, not to get into this film. The format came to be, whenever a major film is trying to avoid censorship from the harsh Hayes Code of the time. Verbal sparring between the sexes often serve as a stand in for physical, sexual tension. Indeed, this movie is a sex comedy without any sex. The screwball comedy also serve as a mention in discuss the issues of social classes between the different of the poor to those of the rich. The movie starts with spoil brat pampered Miami socialite, Ellen "Ellie" Andre (Claudette Colbert) is trying to get out from under her father's (Walter Connolly) thumb by trying to marries fortune-hunter "King" Westley (Jameson Thomas) against the wishes of her father who wants to have the marriage annulled. She wants to run away to go meet up Westley in New York, only to find herself sharing a bus ride with roguish out of work reporter, Peter Warne (Clark Gable) whom is wanting to use her story to get him the biggest new scoop in his life. There are numerous famous scenes throughout the film, that is later recycle, remade or spoof after such as the runaway bride or the famous hitchhiking leg scene. One of the biggest impact, the film had on popular culture was the influence it gave to a certain animator. The scenes with a minor character, Oscar Shapely (Roscoe Karns), continually calling the Gable character "Doc", plus the imaginary character named "Bugs Dooley" mentioned once to frighten Shapely, and a scene in which Gable eats carrots while talking quickly with his mouth full, gave the animator, the idea of Bugs Bunny. Other mentions of "Looney Tunes" characters from the film include Alexander Andrews and King Westley being the inspirations for Yosemite Sam and Pepé LePew, respectively. I do have to say, my favorite scene in the movie is the 'flying trapeze' singing bus scene. While, it's mostly unlikely this would had happen in real life, I have to say the song gives the movie, its charm.I do have to say, while the movie seems lighted hearted; there is several dark humor that is still kinda risking even in today's standards. There is a scene where Warne and Andre act like a hillbilly domestic abuse couple that is a bit disturbing. Then there is a scene where Warne steals a car, after the driver tries to drive off with their luggage. That's still Grant Theft Auto, Peter. You can go to jail for that. It doesn't help his case if he even did go to trial, as he also pretended that he was indeed a gang leader in another scene in the movie, admitting to 'kidnapping' Andre. Still, with his good-natured, street-smart, and breezy performance, Gable would likely be not guilty of the crime, but found guilty on his sex appeal. He did influenced the un-sale of undershirts by taking off his shirt and exposing his bare chest in the film. The acting was pretty good here. I didn't think, Colbert deserve her Best Actress role, as her character wasn't so far off from her real life. Plus, she only took the role because her salary was doubled and she can get a well-planned vacation. Gable was more reluctant participant in the film. It's hard to believe that these two actors are supposed to fall in love with each other, as there was a tense atmosphere as Gable and Colbert did reading. However, they established a friendly working relationship and found that the script was no worse than those of many of their earlier films. Colbert continue to bark trouble during her time on the set, complaining. There are some critics out there that blame the movie for being a bit sexist. Both, Ellen and Peter can seem like unlikeable character because Ellen is a brat and Peter is pompous. His treatment of her reflects his disdain for her class, not because she was a woman. Her behavior reflects her inexperience with the real world, her disdain for his arrogance, and her fear of being out on the road alone. It's very easy to look back and criticize, the social norms of another era but our standards and culture have changed gradually over time; how can we look back and impose those standards on another. I really don't see the movie as sexist at all. The movie did help the bus system more as travel by women substantially increased as a result of the film. Overall: If a fan of classic movies, this movie is one movie, you need to watch. Show a leg, and get hitched.
"It Happened One Night" is a charming and fresh comedy with a series of mix-ups, inconvenient circumstance and an eventually happy ending. This movie is a perfect example of what many romantic comedies were like during it's time, mostly due to the many rules and regulations of the Motion Picture Production Code, which came into effect in 1930. For example Peter (played by Clark Gable) and Ellie (a married woman and played by Claudette Colbert), go through much together throughout the movie and during these series of events they fall in love. On two separate occasions they end up having to stay the night in one hotel room together. Both times the rooms have two separate single beds on opposite sides of the room and between them a blanket gets hung in order to make this situation seem more appropriate, and to ensure that nothing would happen between this man and woman. Even though Paul and Ellie develop strong feelings for each other, to the point where Ellie (in desperation not to go back to her husband) practically throws herself at Paul, but is told that she had better get back to her side of the blanket. It is not until the very end, after the marriage gets properly annulled and Paul and Ellie get married, that the movie can make the suggestion that something more than flirting may happen between the two. Although I would never wish for the any type of censorship on Hollywood (or anyone else) to come back into effect today, there was something about the modesty and innocence of the film (a quality that is almost extinct in modern comedies) that I really appreciated. That combined with its witty comments and intellectual dialog that made watching it a truly refreshing and enjoyable experience.
If there's a better romantic comedy, I haven't seen it.  Every possible cliche is woven into the plot:  spoiled sad rich girl, tough as nails reporter, cheerful singing just-folks, happy hoboes, won't take charity starving boy and his mother, gruff but wise old rich father--it goes on and on.  It ought to be as bad as the worst movies Frank Capra ever made, but somehow Capra overcomes everything, even himself, to craft a gem.  It's completely absurd, of course, in the way a Dickens novel is absurd, but it works because we wish it could work in reality.  And it works because Clark Gable was a mediocre leading man in drama but a fine comedian; because it has the peculiar 1930's way of making men and women oddly both different and equal; because nobody took the whole thing seriously, but just played it out.  An absolute don't miss, especially if you're thinking of getting married.


                
This is the first film to win all big 5 Oscars and it is really easy to see why. Gable is absolutely wonderful as the charming Rogue Peter. Colbert is delightfully coquettish as the naive Ellie. The story is filled with humor, well done sentiment, quotable dialog and it moves along at a brisk pace. Capra's direction is understated and polished. It all adds up to a classic romantic comedy. However, the film has a very dated and irksome view of gender politics. I lost count the number of times Peter threatens to hit Ellie (i.e. domestic violence) and he does spank her without her consent. It is part and parcel of the screwball comedy that a romantic relationship is a coded fight for dominance. So while say the hitchhiking scene is funny there's a nasty undertone of gendered struggle. This aspect renders the film dated in the worst way. I cringed a lot more this time I watched it.This is a good product of the 1930's. It has all the strengths of Capra. But also the time period's and Capra's weaknesses.


                
Clark Gable dials up the 1934 beefcake with his shirt off in one seen, and Colbert famously stops a car while hitchhiking by revealing her leg, but the movie is quite innocuous, and is better known for essentially being the blueprint for romantic comedies to this day. Colbert is a spoiled, rich heiress who runs away from her family (actually starting this by jumping off a yacht and swimming away from them). Gable is a newspaper reporter who's been fired. They find each other on a crowded train, and are forced to sit together. They hate one another at first, but after spending time on a couple of buses, a car, in the haystack together, and in a hotel room divided by a clothesline with a blanket hanging over it <U+0085> well, you get the idea. At one point he carries her across a stream caveman style, over his shoulder, and gives her a swat on the behind as they debate what constitutes a piggyback ride. They confuse each other's motivations and split at the end, Colbert off to wed another (and in a very pretty dress), but we all know where it's heading, and this one is complete with a 'runaway bride' scene. I don't know if the movie was worthy of sweeping the Academy Awards (and Colbert herself didn't think much of it), but it's still sharp with its dialog, and quite entertaining. Aside from the main story line, it has a nice 'Capra' touch in having everyone on a bus (including the driver) singing verses of 'The Man on the Flying Trapeze' to pass the time. I also smiled over this interchange after Gable's character had tossed some newspapers off the bus to make space for his seat:Bus driver: "Oh, fresh guy, huh? What you need is a good sock in the nose." Clark Gable: "Listen pardner, you might like my nose, but I do. I always wear it out in the open, where if anyone wants to take a sock at it, they can do it." "Oh, yeah?" "Now that's a brilliant answer. Why didn't I think of it? Our conversation could have been over long ago." "Oh, yeah?" "You keep that up, we're not going to get anywhere." "Oh, yeah?" "Ya got me. Yeah!" (to chuckling from the other passengers)
I'm not one for comedies, but this was a good one. The first film to win the 5 major Oscars, 'Happened' stars the legendary Clark Gable as he accompanies a spoiled girl from Miami to New York, played by Claudette Colbert. Along the way she learns a thing or two about the rest of the people in America. (This is a film in the Depression.)'Happened' has a very "love to hate you" vibe about it between the two leads, whose blossoming relationship is the star of the film. Beginning with a bus ride, the duo ride, walk, hitchhike and sleep in various locations, jabbing at each other for most of it. The do seem an odd couple at first, but you grow to love them, as they do each other. It's cool, because you could argue the "tipping point", where each realizes their feelings for each other, is one of many scenes.While on the topic of scenes, there are some great ones. The bus, the songs, the "gangster", the hitchhiking, and my favourite, the angry couple ("QUIT BAWLING!") keep the film fresh and funny, until the last act where the 'rom' in this rom-com takes over. That is until the very end, where a great running joke gets the last laugh.Capra's direction is great: the characters constantly develop, the journey moves, and the film feels just right. A great early romantic comedy heavy on laughs and love. Fans of classics will love this. 8.4/10


                
Frank Capra is widely regarded as a revolutionary director and this movie constitutes substantially to this tag. 'It happened one Night' was the first movie of it's kind way back in the 30's where romantic comedies were yet to be born. This is considered as the first major romantic comedy in Hollywood history. Add to it, it was the first ever 'Screwball comedy' movie. Yup, this was actually a new genre invented by Capra. After reading some trivia about the movie, I came to know that the leads Gable and Colbert hated the script so much that they wanted to get over with the movie as soon as possible. Actually, the story of this movie is so simple that it can be explained in a paragraph. But the story-teller that Capra is, this simple story is converted into a very lovable and feel good rom-com which never ceases to amaze you. The movie is full of clichés such as a rich spoilt girl falling in love with a not so wealthy guy and the girl running away from her marriage once she realizes her true love etc etc. But one must also consider the time when this movie was made. Perhaps, this was the first bride runway from marriage scene of cinema history. This movie also influenced a lot of other artists and filmmakers. The cartoon Bugs Bunny is influenced by one of the characters from this movie. Bollywood influence being 'Dil Hai Ki Maanta Nahi'.This was the first movie to win an Oscar Grandslam, i.e all the top 5 major Oscars - Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Screenplay - A Feat achieved 40 years later by 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest'. Clark Gable rules the screen with his comic timing and exceptional screen presence. Claudette Colbert will make you fall in love with her, a very natural performance considering the era in which the movie was made.Overall, Be a part of history and watch this movie keeping your critics hat aside.Rating : 8/10


                
My quest to watch more classic movies(going rather slowly,BTW)pointed me toward this film,a historically relevant as well as critically well-received film. While I probably watched it wrong(I saw in in parts,due to my sometimes business,laziness or easily-distractedness),what I saw was still a marvel of earlier,"Golden Age" film-making,rife with fast-talking,quick-acting,chain-smoking men and women who couldn't bear to be out in public wearing anything but suits,slacks,ties,dresses,hats and shiny shoes! Particular in this pastiche were the matinée stars,Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert,the very examples of bygone film style. This movie,a relatively early offering from legendary filmmaker Frank Capra,was able to use their style,savvy and moxie to full comic effect.Spoiled and sheltered heiress Ellie Andrews(Colbert,with a face that didn't NEED the soft-cell photography.Not that it hurt)wants to reunite with her playboy,estranged husband(Jameson Thomas),so she bolts from her father's yacht and decides to go it alone. She'll need help,as it turns out,and help comes in the way of opportunistic reporter Peter Warne(Gable,in a performance that's cobbled maybe a 1,000 impressions!),smelling an exclusive story. He's set on believing she's a stupid,spoiled heiress,and while she does little to change that impression,he somehow falls in love with her. But with the newspapers abuzz with the story of a runaway heiress and her wealthy daddy(Walter Connolly,underrated)offering a good-sized reward for her return,WArne has to decide the age old question: the girl or the money? Oh,yes,and the story.Historically relevant for being the first of three(to date)sweeps of the Academy Awards(Best Pic,Actor,Actress and Director),this movie may've dudded with less kinetic actors,but the principals deliver here. While I cannot call this a favorite of mine,it's still a must-see for people who want to grasp some of Hollywood's old glory,an old-fashioned love story/madcap comedy or just a cheap,quality rent.


                
"It Happened One Night," the smash-hit movie of 1934, may not seem groundbreaking today, but it's still thoroughly entertaining. Its sturdy romantic-comedy plot has had elements recycled into many other movies, including classics like "The 39 Steps" and "Roman Holiday." Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert), an impulsive heiress, is trying to escape her controlling father and join the man she loves. On her bus from Miami to New York, she meets streetwise journalist Peter Warne (Clark Gable), who agrees to help her avoid the police if he can get the rights to her story. Gable has probably the showier role: Peter is fast-talking, cynical, and contemptuous of Ellie, always trying to teach her common sense. His lessons include, to entertaining effect, "How a Man Undresses," "How to Dunk a Doughnut," "How to Hitchhike." However, Ellie is a quick learner, and by the time the hitchhiking lesson comes around, she can beat Peter at his own game! Another great scene has Gable and Colbert act like a bickering married couple to throw the police off their trail. The movie also attempts to show how Ellie becomes a better person by interacting with ordinary citizens (played by some of those great '30s character actors, talking in colorful vernacular), but I thought it could have gone a little further in that regard.Most of "It Happened One Night," when the characters are on the road, is fast-paced and quick-witted. (At the beginning, Ellie jumps off her father's yacht wearing a dressing gown, and the next time we see her, she's at a bus station in a sweater and skirt. A typical movie would have showed exactly how she got her bus ticket and clothes, which would probably have bogged things down. "It Happened One Night" just has Ellie mention, in a later scene, that she pawned her watch to get money.) But at the end, when the romantic complications need to get sorted out, the pace slows. Also, Ellie's behavior annoyed me: for the whole movie, she's chafed under her father's control, but in the end she lacks the courage to follow her heart, and needs Daddy to make everything all right. Still, if Mr. Andrews hadn't orchestrated things, Ellie wouldn't get her happy ending...and that wouldn't be right in a movie like this, now would it?
Frank Capra's surprise 1934 hit teamed reluctant MGM star Clark Gable with sparky Claudette Colbert, and all the ingredients came together. Gable is a reporter going undercover to tail heiress Colbert, only she doesn't know it.Memorable bits in this film include - the coach trip, with the passengers singing 'That Daring Young Man On The Flying Trapeze'; the room where a sheet separates Gable and Colbert ('the walls of Jericho'); the fact that Gable not wearing a vest sent that particular item's sales plummeting in American stores; and the famous hitchhiking scene where Colbert stops the traffic with a flash of her leg. Walter Connolly again plays a blustering part as Colbert's father.'It Happened One Night' gained Oscars and was a big money-maker for Columbia, and well-deserved.


                
I loved this movie, it reminded me of an older version of Overboard. Rich girl has to live poorly for awhile, only no amnesia. Highly recommend!
The dialog is witty, the characters are delightful, and the story is timeless. The way it managed to weave together a story of conflicing interests and miscommunicated interests was so good, it became a cliché in romantic comedies, even to this day. However, unlike some other formulaic cash grabs you might see today, nothing about the misunderstanding felt forced or overly coincidental. The acting was great, and Clark Gabels performance was charming, smooth, and reluctant, akin to Bogart in Casablanca.


                
Frank Capra directs Clark Gable & Claudette Colbert, who star in this Academy Award winning(Best Picture, director, actor, actress, screenplay) comedy as Gable plays reporter Peter Warne, who stumbles onto a huge story when he discovers that runaway heiress bride Ellie Andrews is on a bus, and trying to conceal her identity. Peter confronts Ellie with a choice: Stick with me so I can get an exclusive story, or I call your father right now. She agrees, and so begins a road picture, as they later leave the bus and are forced to walk and hitchhike, until he can get her back home, assuming they don't fall in love of course...Hilarious comedy with two lead characters you like and care about, and many memorable scenes. Frank Capra had a deft comedic touch, as do the actors, and resulting film is wonderful, if undeniably predictable.


                
While this is definitely not my type of movie I had a great time watching Frank Capra's 1934 "It Happened One Night." The pace and timing throughout this movie is impeccable and I really enjoyed Claudette Colbert's role as the wealthy heiress trying to escape her father's wrath and find true love. The movie is a lot racier and more risque than many movies of the '40s and '50s. There also seemed to be a lot more location shooting than you find in most movies of this era.This movie works a lot better than the more modern sappy romances for me, like "Sleepless in Seattle" and "When Harry Met Sally." Wile all of these stories are simple and contrived in such a way to ensure everything works out "for the best" in the end, it somehow seems a lot more believable with Gable and Colbert at the helm.


                
The spoiled daughter (Claudette Colbert) of a rich man is on the run trying annull a marriage with a fortune hunter and get away to New York. On her way on the bus, she meets a reporter (Clark Gable) on the look for a story, and who will challenge her attitude with his charms for an exciting cross-country tour.Frank Capra's direction of this film is typical of the instanses, when a great director is working from a great script - here from Robert Riskin. The sense of character dynamics and development is what really carries the story here. Colbert and Gable's relation is exciting, and I really liked the film's atmosphere, rather than the plot itself.The charm and snappy wit of Clark Gable is unmistakable, and to me reminiscent of "Gone with the Wind". But the relationship between Claudette and Clark develops very maturely and naturally, and is really what drives this excellent romance and film. This is in my view one of the greatest rom-com films from the Hollywood Golden Era.


                
