Over the course of approx. 12 years, Tarantino has only done one thing: take other people's ideas, mash them together, and call it his own. This is no exception. In fact, it's the best example.Literally everything in this amalgam was taken (without permission) from another source. Plot points, dialogue, costumes, locations, music, even characters themselves were stolen and placed in this film. Like the movie all you want to, but it won't change the fact that this is perhaps the most unoriginal movie anybody has ever made.Some day (hopefully soon), Tarantino will steal from someone who doesn't want to be stolen from, and he will be sued for every penny in his unoriginal pockets. But as for the movie itself...what can I say about it that you can't see for yourself by watching other films? Nothing. Many many many people have caught on to what Tarantino has done over and over again since 1992, and many many many people really don't appreciate it.Keep this in mind if you decide to subject yourself to this horrible excuse for a film: the person who supposedly wrote pulp fiction actually wrote this. This is what that person is capable of. Someone by the name of Roger Avary wrote a vast majority (if not almost all) of pulp fiction...and True Romance...and Natural Born Killers...and perhaps even Reservoir Dogs. But it doesn't end there. In part two of kill bill, Tarantino even steals some more from Avary! It's no wonder why they aren't working together any more...and it's painfully obvious that Tarantino's movies are suffering because of it.So I have a challenge to anyone and everyone in the world: name one director, besides Tarantino, who has done nothing in their entire cinematic career except steal other people's work. Name one other director, living or dead, who has created nothing on their own. I'll bet my house that you can't.


                
I've seen Reservoir Dogs, Jackie Brown and Pulp Fiction. There was a lot of blood and gore in these movies, but they had a story - something "Kill Bill" is totally lacking.I was rather appalled to see this movie so many people are mad about - and to see that it's nothing else but a meaningless bunch of fight scenes, full of blood and bad taste.Has Tarantino finally lost his mind? Violence for the sake of violence? No plot whatsoever? Fight scenes ten minutes long that make Matrix 2 look like Citizen Kane? What has happened that our society embraces a movie like this which has nothing to show but blood and chopped of arms and feet?


                
I might be mixing KB 1 and 2 below, sorry for that, it all blends together. Being no fan of Tarantino (except for Jackie Brown, end of the list), I could not say that there has been anything that specifically great about Kill Bill. The fight scenes are spectacular. Period. This is a movie in my eyes that tries to say "hey, in case you do not like or understand me, you are just not at an appropriate level of evolution yet, okay?". It is bloody, and illogical. This is often true for Tarantino's movies, I think (I did not like Pulp Fiction either and could not get through it once).Many have stated this before, but pray tell me, in case you wake up on your hospital bed after years of coma, how on Earth are you meant to grasp the whole situation immediately. And in the first place, why did they wait patiently for Uma Thurman's character to wake up? Did they assume they could chat it over in the end and be good friends again? The genre works with Asians - all-round, real, not imported Asians I mean- as in Wo hu cang long, but is in my opinion a total miss here. The same is true for the Anime part, which I found ridiculous and overdone. Why bother that much with Lucy Liu's character anyway? I do not believe there was much originality in this movie. The Charlie's Angels up against each other thing might have worked but did not. I suggest Tarantino and manga fans watch. Martial arts fans pick something decent instead.
How did this make it into the top 250 list on the IMDb. It was a very disappointing film, and this comes from a Tarantino fan. Both reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction are classics of the highest order and rightfully Tarantino was recognised as a good director for these films. Yet because of the reputation he gained from these two films, anything he makes is branded a classic? Jackie Brown was OK, not great but entertaining. Kill Bill doesn't even match this. Its just a load of unrealistic cartoon violence, but is branded as excellent because Tarantino himself says it is (cos he gets off on this sort of thing). The plot is terrible compared to his earlier work. To me, Vol 1 is just Tarantino cashing in. The story of the Bride could be told with just Vol.2 as this is where most of the plot lies. Vol 1 is an excuse for all involved just to make more money. Vol.2 isn't much better, but with good performances from Michael Madsen and Daryll Hannah, its at least watchable. I hereby advise you to skip Vol.1 if you still intend to watch vol.2, as you wont miss anything important or remotely entertaining.


                
A action/crime/thriller about a women named "the Bride"(Uma Thurman) who was at one time a part of a group of world class female assassins until the leader of the group "bill"(David Carradine) and the other assassins turn on her.They beat her up so bad she goes into a coma 4 1/2 years later she awakens from the coma and seeks the people who tried to kill her and her unborn child so she can kill them.Give me a break this is a very very stupid movie the story is ridiculous a total peace of vile crap.The gore in this movie is like no other movie I have ever seen they must have spent 2 million dollars on fake blood.It was almost sickening to watch the violence in this movie it makes "fargo" look like "the lion king".Uma Thurman's acting was absolutely dreadful.The screenplay was very bad also Quentin Tarantino tried to get clever with the directing but didn't quiet pull it off in my opinion.Best actor/actress-Lucy LiuTerrible,Vile,Disgusting,Movie-Jake HydenI rated this 2 out of 102/10


                
Yes. Biased. Biased because I think Quentin Tarantino is probably one of the most overrated directors ever.Kill Bill Vol. 1 is just the latest edition in a line of many pretentious Tarantino movies. He's been considered a visionary for not making movies like everybody else makes them--but that's because he doesn't seem to care that his movies need to be realistic, believable, or have characters you become attached to. It's just scene after scene of script that didn't take very much thinking to write.This movie is an example of such. The story is ridiculous. Laughable, even. It's the kind of story you'd expect from the novel rack at an airport bookstore. The dialog is even more so. Scenes are shot in the most mind-numbingly annoying way possible. Split screens and back-and-forth college-student-film cuts make several appearances. Silly gimmicks like censoring The Bride's real name have been called genius, but truthfully it's just a way to keep your brain working so you forget that the story is absolutely simple. Stupid costumes, some of the worst ever seen in a movie. The gore is pointless and boring. Some people have called this the bloodiest movie of all time, and yet I don't see it. Sure, it's bloody, but it's a boring kind of bloody. The marathon of a fight scene late in the movie featuring The Bride singlehandedly slicing and dicing a hundred or so men in Lone Ranger masks left me yawning and even getting up to get another drink; no matter how much watery blood you spray, it's not going to improve such a badly choreographed fight scene.Now I've clicked the "Spoiler Alert" box in case this counts as a spoiler, but how can it? This movie (and the sequel, obviously) gives away the ending in the title. Bill gets killed. Subtle? Hardly. If you can really know how this movie ends and be amazed anyway, it's time to read a book or two, preferably something by a respectable storywriter and not a hack.I did not hate Tarantino before seeing this movie--as a matter of fact, I had a pretty so-so opinion of him. He made movies, most of which I hadn't seen. Upon seeing this film, I purposely went back and watched other Tarantino films to see if maybe he just dropped the ball on this one. He didn't. It's the same style as the rest.If you want a movie that makes you think, skip this one. Rent a Star Trek movie. I'm not even a Star Trek fan, but some of the films featuring the original cast (Shatner, Nimoy, and those other people) are better-written than this movie.
I fail to see what makes this so appealing. Way too over-the-top, bad screenplay. I didn't care what happened to any of these people, and the fights were not that mind-boggling. Some say that the Bride's battle with the Super 88 puts the Burly Brawl to shame, but that is simply not true. If you want a movie that does this kind of thing well, watch Crouching Tiger, because this movie blows. Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb Dumb
2/10


                
((((SPOILERS)))) I am convinced that Quentin Tarantino, at some point in his charmed life, sold his soul to the devil. There is no other way to explain how someone with such limited talent, lack of vision, poor taste and apparent bloodlust can, not only find huge success in making movies, but earn an astonishing amount of critical praise as a genius. He turns out unmitigated junk like KILL BILL (Vol. 1 & 2), and the only possible, logical reason for it being embraced is that Satan has stepped in and worked the blackest of black magic. QT had better enjoy his success, because someday he may have to pay. KILL BILL is a pop culture trash heap, celebrating cinema at it's worst. Tarantino regurgitates garbage, but because he can recreate trash with a degree of flare and an eye for the colorful visual, it is mistaken for art. KILL BILL lovingly weaves together elements of chop-socky epics, klutzy yet ponderous martial arts flicks, spaghetti westerns, third rate film noir, fourth rate horror films and other random bits of genre and exploitation films that most respectable critics would avoid like the plague and somehow this cluttered homage to junk cinema is seen as visionary. What he is doing is nothing new; Spielberg and Lucas built their careers on reliving their childhood guilty pleasures with multimillion dollar budgets. And that is not to mention the glut of films that find their inspiration in the superficial world of comic books and TV series from the 1960s. Long gone are the days where classic literature, folk legends and mythology represent cultural touchstones for storytelling; now you'd be hard pressed to come across a Shakespearean quote, not when a reference to a Trix breakfast cereal commercial is deemed to be so much more insightful. Playing verbal Trivial Pursuit with every other line of dialogue isn't necessarily a bad thing; it can add a touch of whimsy and a cultural context to a tale. But in Tarantino's exceedingly narrow view of the world, every thought, every quip is reduced to a pop culture reference. Yet, the overabundance of arcane trivia he shoehorns into his scripts doesn't have a punch. They're not there for social commentary or to even particularly define a character's social background, but to show off Tarantino's own knowledge of minutiae. No matter how skillful he is as a director (and I won't argue that he isn't a clever craftsman) or how blood soaked his scenes or obscenity laden his dialogue, Tarantino still comes off as the know-it-all class geek trying to prove how smart he is. The problem is that he is not dispensing knowledge, only parroting catchphrases and factoids. There is no original thought in a Tarantino film, just repackaged leftovers. Not that his screenplays don't try to pretend to have depth. In KILL BILL, Tarantino supplies a batch of clichéd fortune cookie bromides, probably recycled from old movies just like his action scenes. These bits of canned wisdom come off as forced and phony as the pseudo-Biblical nonsense that Samuel L. Jackson babbles in PULP FICTION. Tarantino's fans, both in the audience and in the press, latch onto these superficial bits of pseudo-philosophy as they try to defend his films as being more than the lame, ugly, ultra-violent exploitations they are. This despite the obvious, that Tarantino glibly seems to approach his material with a hokey-jokey attitude. Tarantino gets it both ways: he gets to trivialize his violence by packaging it in glib humor, while his defenders try to justify the violence by claiming it is part of something with much deeper meaning. Either way, both avoid dealing with the reality that his films are extended wallows in sleazy, pointless, sadistic violence. For the most part, KILL BILL is nothing more than just another slasher/serial killer flick. The only difference is that the stalking killer is supposed to have our sympathy. Uma Thurman's The Bride, a.k.a. Beatrice Kiddo, follows in the footsteps of Vincent Price in dozens of horror films as the wounded victim seeking vengeance for a past injustice. Thurman, alas, has none of the class of Price, just as KILL BILL has none of the wit, style or charm of his old AIP mini-epics. But if all one wants in a film is elaborate displays of over the top violence than Tarantino fills the bill, so to speak. Otherwise, eighty percent of the film is wasted celluloid. It is not until the end that Tarantino gets to the point, the confrontation between Kiddo and Bill, her mentor, lover and adversary. We get a plot twist that actually gives a purpose to the rest of the film -- finally. The Bride and Bill have a confrontation like a perverse version of KRAMER VS. KRAMER and the complications that the film has vaguely hinted at become a genuinely compelling situation -- and something rare in Tarantino's limited world: real human interaction. But, having saturated his story with blood, gore and cynicism, it is hard to care. Tarantino wants us to have a warm and fuzzy feeling at the end, but having given us a heroine who, even before her campaign of revenge, was a cold-blooded, monstrous killer, why should we wish her a happily-ever-after ending. Rather than being ironic, the ending is depressing. Sadder still than the dubious quality of Tarantino's shallow, overlong epic is that he has gained iconic status as the purveyor of sadistic chic and cold-blooded cool, an icon to be admired and imitated. The violence in his films are nothing compared to the violence he has inflicted on our pop culture.
one of the worst movies in recent memory.  yeah i get its supposed to be a cheesy slapstick drawback to the campy kung fu movies of the 70s, but cripes, how long does the blood have to spurt?  if i hadnt spent $3.21 I would have shut it off after about 25 minutes, let alone was it boring and standard revenge drivel, the acting was bad, the cinematography was nothing that hasnt been seen, but the big slaughter fest at the end was so boring and predictable, i found myself distracted about half way through it. an absolute terrible movie. dont bother seeing volume 2 if its anywhere near this bad


                
****possible spoilers****Depending on whom you talk to, Quentin Tarantino is either a great director paying homage to as many films and film genres he can dream up in his overextended forehead, or he is an unoriginal rip-off artist who's only claim to cinematic achievement is that he puts enough violent episodes in his films to please his blood-thirsty hard core fans and keep them forever loyal.  With Kill Bill, he takes things a step further by paying homage not only to grindhouse, kung-fu and Samurai films, but also P.T. Barnum.  In other words, Quent knows there's a sucker born every minute and most of them are his loyal fans.I have seen four very bad films this year: It Runs In The Family, Bad Boys II, Basic and now Kill Bill.  In Kill Bill we find out that Quent is so in love with his own directing style that he ended up totally disregarding the kind of film he was supposed to be making and instead uses his idea to try and prove how artsy and cool he still is to his adoring fans.  What is saddest of all about the whole thing is he had a good idea here, but flubs it so badly trying to be super-cool that it ends up as one over-extended mass of carnage and bloodletting that seems to go on for eternity.Tarantino claims this is his fourth film.  He proudly proclaims it in the opening titles.  What he does not proclaim proudly is that this is only the first half of his film as the words Volume I are once again almost hidden in the opening title (it appears very small as vol 1) just as it was done on the web site for the film in it the subsequent tv ads and theatrical trailers.  So in actuality this is Tarantino's third and a half film, but you won't see that title card.  I guess he's not as proud splitting the film as one would think and after viewing it, that's quite understandable but more about that later.Tarantino again refuses to be bounded by any type of linear story telling. Normally, that would not be a problem with me but if any film cried out for straight-forward story telling this one did.  After the opening scene of Bill putting The Bride into a coma for four years and after the credits roll, we immediately go to his first chapter which is a confrontation between The Bride and Copperhead  (Vivica A Fox). After dispensing with Fox in front of Fox's daughter Uma departs in her vehicle and as she crosses off the Copperhead's name, we see she has already crossed off the name of O-ren Ishii (Lucy Liu).  So at the beginning of the film we already know she has done away with one of her adversaries so when that battle does appear late in the first half of this film, any tension that might have been gained is completely destroyed in the first 16 minutes of the first half of Kill Bill. So much for non-linear story telling.  Though he likes to spill blood, Tarantino obviously hates any kind of suspense (which might explain his recent put-down of Hitchcock).  It gets worse.From there we flashback to the church where Bill shot The Bride and where his assasins created havoc on her wedding party.  After being found still alive by a sheriff and his deputies, we then get The Bride in the hospital lying in a coma.  At this time we also get Elle Driver alias California Mountain Snake alias Daryl Hannah in a split screen dressing as a nurse, filling a syringe with poison supposedly to finish The Bride off.  It is a mission we know beforehand won't succeed so when her cell phone rings and it's Bill telling her to call it off, the whole scene becomes incredibly pointless.  It is here because Tarantino wants again to show us his coolness, storytelling be damned.Soon we get more pointless Tarantino cool.  After a silly bit in the hospital where The Bride wakes up from her coma and looking to be in as good of a condition as Ali Macgraw did on her deathbed in Love Story, so much so that she is able to immediately dispense with two silly perverts. Soon, she begins talking to her toes to get them to move.  Here we get what is suppose to be a cool anime sequence, telling us the background of O-Ren Ishii who is already dead because we saw the name crossed out on The Bride's notebook, even if we haven't seen it on the screen yet.  Since we know she is dead, and we are probably going to see how she was killed soon, the whole animated sequence (and not a very good one) becomes another pointless exercise in Tarantino's "Look at me I'm cool" disease.  It's no wonder this film ran three hours.  The rest of the first half of his film goes on and on in much the same vain - interminably so.  Even when we near the four month intermission point we get The Bride just beginning to list her targets on her notepad, so in essence when we reach the end, we are back near the beginning again.  More cool.Then there is the big fight scene where before confronting 0-Ren (who we know is already dead), The Bride must dispense with about a hundred of her comrades including a teenage girl in a catholic type school uniform.  What we get is a lot of severed limbs where everyone must have five times as much blood as the human body normally carries so Tarantino can spray it around the room like a gardener watering the lawn.  A good portion of this fight is in black and white I suppose to spare us the horror of it all.  It doesn't matter, black and white or living color, the whole bit is cartoonish and more comical than intense. The fact that Tarantino proclaimed it would be too intense and we would be unable to watch his full film in one sitting because of it is as ludicrous as the scene itself.  It must be the P.T. Barnum in him working.  If there had been some interesting swordplay, it might have been redeemable, but because it is more important to Tarantino to have his blood joke, you actually see very little of the fighting mostly due to some of the worse editing ever seen in this type of film.  As if black and white weren't enough, shortly after we get the finish of the battle completely in shadows with the lights turned off.  More Tarantino cool. More pointlessness.When The Bride's fight with the already dead Lucy Liu does occur, our only curiosity is how she dispenses with her.  The scene is beautifully photographed, but the battle itself is so quick and anticlimactic we can only stare at the screen and go HUH?  Some decent one on one swordplay would have been nice here but I guess that doesn't fit in with Tarantino's scheme of putting as much blood out there as possible.  So much for paying actual homage to Samurai films.Tarantino could have done what he supposedly set out to do.  Between this half of the film and the second half we'll get in February, there may have been enough to make an hour and a half or two hour film homage to the genre he claims to love.  Unfortunately, his love of himself is becoming so overwhelming, his love of showing off his filmmaking coolness interferes too much with what this film could have been and should have been.  Will his faithful followers ever be convinced that this is an overextended, two part self congratulatory two part rip off? Probably not, but Tarantino knows that.  So did P.T. Barnum.
Vanity projects are usually made by people who, after receiving a lot of praise and support for their work, want to make something that is personal to them and therefore don't really care what anyone thinks of it in the process (usually because they wrongly believe that people will still eat it up due to the artist behind the project rather than the art itself). Sadly, this often means that they are terrible in every sense of the word, due to a lack of quality control. Due to a poor storyline, no character development and a lot of sadistic violence, this film is no exception to this rule.The story is that a woman only known as The Bride has been left in a coma after her old assassin posse knocked her unconscious and killed mostly everyone at her wedding day, including her husband to be and, potentially, her unborn daughter. After awakening from this coma, she seeks bloody revenge against them, killing them one by one. While the story is a simple revenge plot, it becomes overly convoluted as Tarintino adopts a non- linear structure to the film, but unlike his previous films that had a similar structure, some parts of the film lack context to the events on screen, and you feel very lost, as if there was a previous instalment to this that you missed.The rest of the writing is equally inept. None of the characters are very developed, and it is hard to care about anyone because of it. There are also a lot of plot holes throughout the story as well, including how the police never bother showing up despite the violent murders that the Bride commits (I.e killing a doctor but never bothering to hide his body, killing a mother in front of her own daughter, the massacre in the Japanese restaurant at the end) or how Lucy Liu got to the head of the Yazuka (the Japanese mafia) despite having awful bodyguards and fighting skills that are adequate at best. The fact that there are many pointless scenes here as well don't help as they often slow down the story and bore you, mainly the animated scene.Another major problem is how casually the film wallows in its sadistic violence. People are decapitated, eyes are pulled out, people see their families murdered and limps are often cut off. However the violence isn't displayed in an OTT manner, but rather in a more serious way with people screaming in agony and wriggling around like worms when their legs are chopped off. That isn't fun violence but rather deeply unpleasant and needless carnage. It strikes me as odd how the game Manhunt (released at a similar time) is yelled at for being too violent, but no-one bats an eye at this, despite it being perhaps worse, as unlike Manhunt it lacks any context and is just sadism for sadism's sake. Sadism also extends to other areas as well, like a doctor who rapes comatose patients and a guy getting his head slammed into a door for information. It's utterly grotesque and while not morally bankrupt like Natural Born Killers is per say, still makes you feel dirty after seeing it.There are some good things here to though, mainly that of the production design. Sets are gorgeous and are beautifully shot, and the HD version I saw makes them feel more alive and colourful. The soundtrack by Wu-Tang Clan rapper RZA is great too, and compliments the Asain influences of the film very well. The acting is also quite good, with all actors giving much better performances than the film deserves.Sadly however, those good things don't make a whole, as the film's flaws completely sink it, due to poor storytelling, characters and handling of violence, becoming sadistic for the sake of it. It is because of this that I would find it very hard to recommend Kill Bill to anyone, except die hard Tarantino fans and adolescents nitwits who don't know any better. Tarantino is a great filmmaker, and he can do so much better than this slock, but thanks to a complete lack of scrutiny and quality control, he wastes his talent on self indulgent vanity projects like this. Critics and audiences many continue to dump praise onto this based on the goodwill Tarantino earned through his early work, but the awfulness of work like this demonstrates that goodwill doesn't excuse dreadful dreck. Avoid at all costs.


                
I have loved all the Tarintino films, but this is his worst film. The digital effects were not that hot. Thurman was good but it lacks the real black humour of the his earlier films. Having said this, I'm really looking forward to seeing what he does next.


                
RESERVOIR DOGS and PULP FICTION hit a chord with filmgoers.  An imaginative script and fresh storytelling were a breath of fresh air in the stale environment of contemporary filmmaking.  However, what many predicted has come to pass.  Tarantino has revealed his lack of depth and world view; what was thought to be a keen insight into universal truths has turned out to be just visual glibness.It has been stated that KILL BILL is an homage to the martial arts genre. If it is, it is no more useful than an homage to oil-on-velvet paintings. The martial arts genre is about NOTHING other than exotic cinematic action pretending to be treatises on honor and revenge.  Tarantino has tried to say that this is important in the grand world view of things. If revenge is the theme, then it would have been better to copy the films of Kurosawa.
While Tarantino obviously has a vast knowledge of films due to his years of watching videos, he lacks as a filmmaker a world education.  Hinted at in RESERVOIR DOGS and PULP FICTION and clarified by KILL BILL is the fact that Tarantino knows very little about the world, human life, human desires, and love.  He is the outsider looking in -- looking through distorted glass -- and trying to copy what he sees.  Trying to copy (and do one better) the martial arts genre is the perfect example of someone with a very narrow cinematic vocabulary who has run out of "words."It was extremely disappointing to see a filmmaker squander a chance at making a quantum leap in storytelling.  Instead Tarantino has returned to his lonely room and engaged in cinematic masturbation.


                
'Kill Bill Vol. 1', Quentin Tarantino's fourth movie everybody is talkin' about because it's just _Quentin Tarantino_. Beside the hype around this man he didn't impress me with his movies, though he had some interesting ideas - until now.'Kill Bill' made me slip back in my comfortable cinema chair thinking about the wasted time (111 minutes!) and money (5 EUR!) and stupidness of following the mainstream and all the hypes. Well, this aren't the normal thoughts of the audience and I want to tell you why I thought so about this movie.I went to the cinema for two reasons: 1. A friend told me that Kill Bill is a good exploitation film like 'Braindead' - 2. Another one who knows me quite well and said that I will like this movie. So with joyfully anticipation the whole thing started but turned me off quite fast. Nothing happened. They shoot, they kill, they bleed, they jump, they beat... what's so special? Not even (IMHO) poor martial arts actors like Jackie Chan or Jet Li would appreciate such useless fighting sequences. And why did they pull swords in and out of the sheaths for minutes??? Some hidden meaning?Is it really necessary to pack a conventional (American) revenge story (tooth for tooth, eye for eye) in such an over-the-top exaggerated movie with childish fightings (the comic-book showdown in the restaurant), useless blood flow (I like gore but you must know where you gave to use it), hollywood dialogues and sloppy cinematic elements (the anime retrospect of O-Ren Ishii).This movie will appeal to people who have seen every 'Karate Tiger' movie, know the basic facts of Jean-Claude Van Damme's life and enjoy Dragon Ball Z on a daily basis.Sorry people I have to give up but 'Kill Bill' was the worst film I saw since 'Scary Movie 2'.


                
If this film had not been directed by Tarantino, but still would have been the same film, it would have become a C-picture with a rating not above 5.0. What is this supposed to be anyway? Pseudo-intellectual? Pseudo-aesthetic? I don't know. I don't see any beauty or intellectual challenge in this whatsoever. It is an agony to watch a man inspecting a sword for two minutes, which he was supposed to be looking at for a whole month before that. And a soon as the viewer is about to fall asleep, someone's guts are spilled all over the place. I can't imagine brutality that is more pointless and sickening. People who take other people's lives without feeling anything should not be glorified like this. Mr. Tarantino clearly has some serious issues. If only he kept them to himself...


                
Uma Thurman is Clint Eastwood in drag in this blood drenched comic book of a movie about revenge that is as stale as the the 30 year old low budget chop socky garbage it emulates.On her wedding day the pregnant Bride (Thurman) has her reception ruined when her old employer Bill (CEO of an assassination bureau) has his squad of flunkies shoot up the festivities. All present are killed with the exception of The Bride who remains in a coma for a few years. When sleeping beauty eventually arises all hell breaks loose. Determined to exact revenge on former co-workers in warrior fashion she embarks on a bloody path from the States to Japan.Movie boy wonder of the last decade, Quentin Tarantino, is a prime example of how far American Cinema has fallen since its late seventies collapse. Critics have sung his praises far and wide as a new voice with a fresh approach. Having achieved iconic pop culture and auteur status Kill's full title is Quentin Tarantino's 4th Film Kill Bill 1. Welles and Ford never got that type of billing and Hitchcock didn't earn it until his fiftieth film. Not QT, he's a phenom. I however must respectfully disagree.Bill is very colorful and surreal most of the time which dilutes its effect, kills the realism and turns the characters into solemn cartoon characters. Tarantino's dialogue is his typical profanity laced paragraphs that nuanced slightly could be interchanged with all his other profanity laced scripts of threat and bravado. His visuals go from tedious posing to nostalgic kung fu chaos seasoned in buckets of blood. They have the sophistication of a disturbed 9 year old who has troubles staying within the lines of his coloring book. In addition to Thurman's Eastwood sex change he evokes the style and pacing of the lumbering work of Sergio Leone from start to finish. As a comic book Kill Bill 1 would be a page turner. The only thing it turns as a film in the adolescent hands of Tarantino is one's stomach.


                
My sister loved so much this movie when she went to the theater to watch it that I was intrigued to the bones. Some time after, I had to rent it because I had a thorn in my side...What an AWFUL and HOLLOW movie I found! Gosh!I really do not understand when I see people saying this movie was brilliant or artistic... Where is the art part of this stupid garbage??? I had watched Pulp Fiction and I thought it was entertaining. I really enjoyed my time watching Pulp Fiction so I thought Kill Bill was going to be good, specially after all the hype. But I realized that Quentin Tarantino is that kind of director who makes a good film and say "Well, now I can make any garbage that people will think is brilliant because my name is on it".I tried to give it a second chance watching the sequel, but it was more of the same! Actually it is not a sequel. Tarantino just split the film in 2 because it would have been extremely long.Sorry for the people who likes this movie, but to me it sucked. It has no plot at all. It is just a woman who came from a 5 years period coma miraculously and wants to take revenge and kill every former partner of her mafia brotherhood. All you can see in this movie is blood, blood and blood, violence, brutality (even in front of little children) and some ridiculous scenes. Also there is about 15 min. of anime for no reason, that I watched unwillingly. I love anime but if I rent a movie with real actors I want to see real actors, not stupid cartoons! And the anime scene is just the 1000-times-seen scene of "You are a kid hidden under the bed scared to death while your parents are being killed in the same room".When I told my sister "This movie sucked" she asked me "but had you read about Tarantino?" Come on! A movie is something you just watch, you must not need to read about the director, or the movie or anything. The movie must be enjoyable itself! My sister also said "With the martial art scenes Tarantino wanted to tribute Bruce Lee because he loves him"... Sorry, Tarantino, but you did not make any Bruce Lee tribute at all. SHAME ON YOU!The only thing I liked was the music. The music is very good but I would rather play the music CD than watch this garbage again.
Oh joy. Someone gave Quentin Tarantino another chance. When will they learn? In this outing, Tarantino decides to revisit the 1970's spy thriller/blaxploitation flick, with Uma Thurman playing the role of Shaft. The only advantage he has over the original era seems to be a better quality of film stock.Plenty of reviews praise the "originality" of this movie. The people writing those reviews are nitwits. This is arguably the most derivative piece of hackwork I've ever seen. Its every pace, its every camera angle, is lifted from previous eras and other genres. There's no originality in pastiche. And if Tarantino, or other pseudo-intellectuals, want to dignify this con-job with the name of "homage," it doesn't change the facts. There's a reason that schlock-fests like this went out in the 1980's -- audiences outgrew them. Well, apparently a new crop of teenage boys need the lesson taught again. Too bad.The entire plot is predicated on a revenge for a crime we get no background on. the victims and the perpetrators are essentially nameless, free of anything more than comic-book level characterizations. Everyone in the movie is a grotesque parody, leaving the discerning audience member who can see past the gallons of fake blood to hunt in vain for anyone worth rooting for.This is strictly for those prepubescents who think it's "kewl" for women to dress up in bondage outfits and have swordfights. Anyone with more maturity than that should steer clear.


                
This movie has moments of artistic merit, such as the Japanese garden scene during snowfall. It is also commendable in its attempt to synthesize several different genres into one picture. This effort, though, for the most part, fails. The different genres don't really mesh together seamlessly into one fabric, but seem tacked together and disjointed.What really torpedoes this picture is its excessive violence. The violence is so repetitive it becomes mind numbing. At other times it is so graphic it is repugnant. The violence itself adds little to the story development and has little artistic merit. However, if you are hardened to this sort of thing and enjoy it, then this picture is for you.


                
Okay, first off, I love Quentin Tarantino. One mention of the man and I light up like a Christmas tree...but I loathed this movie. Maybe it's because I grew up on roughly the same movies as Quentin, knew what to expect when he was busy name-dropping influences and got disappointed when the movie didn't deliver, maybe it's because Yuen Woo Ping's choreography here was way below par for the great man that he is...I don't know.However, my best bet is that my final decision that Kill Bill 1 was godawful happened after that arm came off and ridiculous comic-book blood flew forth from the wound. I've seen my fair share of limb severances, and that was the weakest. It was all I could do not to roll off the sofa in fits of derisive laughter. Somewhere along the line, somebody forgot to mention how completely unconvincing Kill Bill is. I can suspend my disbelief in Halloween Resurrection and that movie was pretty creaky too but it was a hell of a lot more fun than Kill Bill.So it's not for lack of effort, or even lack of style that Kill Bill fails. It's just the fact that the moment anyone dies it happens in such a stupid cartoon fashion that you're jolted all the way back to your sofa and you realise you need the toilet, you've got to be at work the next morning and you've been watching this damn thing for an hour and a half. For a movie in which being violent seems to be the entire point(god knows there's damn little substance anywhere else in this first two hour chunk) you'd think they could have got it right.Take the violence out (which anyone who likes violent movies may as well as they will have seen five times this movie a gazillion times before) and you realise A: Uma Thurman's character is intentionally glacial and wooden, which is all well and good but makes her impossible to really root for, B: There is nigh-on no script or dialogue to speak of in this first part, and C: Most sections don't synch well with each other, giving the movie a 'Look at this! Now look at that!' feel that just hacked me off.So...I'd like to see Part 2 just to find out how it all plays out, but first I've got to go and get the Ajax and a pan scourer to wash the foul taste of this part out of my mouth. I state again: Tarantino is an amazing director but everyone makes mistakes. This is his first.


                
"Kill Bill vol. 1" in the IMDb's top 100 (right now it holds position n°56) is the biggest joke of the year. The only Tarantino film that should be allowed into the Top 100 is "Kill Bill vol. 2", in my opinion the first time Tarantino did more than steal from other movies. The line between reference, homage and plagiarism is pretty thin indeed. When I first saw "Kill Bill 1" I thought it was a good film with lots of references to Quentin's favourite movies, the first Tarantino film that I could enjoy. Yet I was more hopeful for the second installment.At the time I was surprised as to how many goofs I'd spotted in the film. I knew some were deliberately in there, but some were indeed mistakes. At the time I was able to enjoy lots of references.All that changed last week... when I watched "Lady Snowblood". In my (bold and arrogant) opinion Tarantino has taken just too much out of this film to see it as a reference. Some examples: fight in the snow, dividing the film in chapters, the kill list, the cartoon (images in Lady Snowblood, anime in Kill Bill), the extreme education both the Lady and the Bride had to suffer (and while we're comparing: after seeing "Lady Snowblood", Beatrix's education looked like kindergarten), the big fight in an establishment (okay, the opponents weren't masked, but the next scene was set at a masked ball)... I'm sure I left out a few. As I was watching "Lady Snowblood", my respect for "Kill Bill 1" dropped by the minute. There are way too many comparable scenes for it to be a homage: the nicest I can be is say it's a remake. Oh, and I know that "Lady" and "Bill" aren't the only revenge films out there, but isn't it a coincidence that so many references are out there?Which brings us to Meiko Kaji, the actress who starred as "Lady Snowblood" and "Female Convict Scorpion" (of which the song "Urami Bushi" can be enjoyed on Bill's soundtrack). It would be unfair to compare Lady Snowblood to The Bride, but life isn't fair, so here we go. While Uma Thurman does her best, a Meiko Kaji she ain't. Kaji had it in her to combine the looks of Venus and Medusa, which is pretty rare. By contrast, Uma Thurman's character resembles the Lady as much as Uma's version resembled the real Emma Peel.As I mentioned before, I liked "Kill Bill vol 2" better. I know that the dialogues are pretty weak at times (a real problem for Tarantino, by the way), but it's the first time I could see this director do more than make references to films he liked. "Kill Bill 2" is made as an Italian western (Ennio Morricone has vowed to kill anyone who'll still call these films 'spaghetti westerns') and you sort of feel this as you watch the film. The other Tarantinos felt like juxtapositions of references, but in "Kill Bill 2" there's a story, a coathanger, that guides you through the film. If now Tarantino learns how to write interesting dialogues, he actually might be able to make an excellent film. As long as he learns that copying references only works as long as people haven't seen the real deal.Now it just feels like you've watched "Psycho", the Gus van Sant version.


                
Tarantino is the most overrated director of all time.If he respected martial arts movies and actors why did he cast Carradine who stole 'kung fu' from Bruce Lee?The only person who really digs Tarantino films is Tarantino himself.The fact that there's a bigger deal about his efforts on 'sin city'than frank miller himself goes to show that people dig name brands rather than actual talent.So Tarantino watched a few films at his old job,big deal,at least Miller creates or expands on previous creations to create new perspectives on old characters but always with a sense of originality.I know this is redundant as an argument ,comic book vs film,but give credit where its due ,tarantino got the gig for marquee value and being rodriguez's mate.Tarantino is best left to readers of style mags who talk and act clever and are like ssooo ironic but wouldn't touch a real martial arts film if you paid them.He could be a great actor though...right?


                
I very rarely take the time to write reviews on here unless I feel extremely strongly about a film, and in this case, I find it quite difficult to fathom how this garbage has any good reviews. I was honestly looking forward to seeing it for the first time after hearing about how many people enjoyed it, and knowing what a famous film it is. Reading the synopsis it sounded like a movie with a good storyline and a lot of potential. I, also, am normally one to love a bit of bloodshed in action, thriller, horror or sci-fi films but this movie was just totally ridiculous and over the top. About half the movie was in what I assume was Japanese with no subtitles, which really didn't make it any more difficult to figure out what was happening in regards to the storyline but it did make the film a whole lot more frustrating to watch, and with much of the dialogue in Japanese as well, it really stopped me as from engaging, feeling sorry for, or connecting with any of the characters. Good for you if you speak English and Japanese I suppose. The worst part though, was all the absurd violence. I was literally staring in disgust and shaking my head in disbelief. The whole movie contains graphic violence, all of it entirely ridiculous. There are people getting limbs hacked off left right and centre with fountains of blood spurting from the wounds, psychotic 17 year old girls who like killing things and a fight scene where around 200 people can't take down one whack-job woman. I can see the humour in unrealistic violence when it's done in a light- hearted sense, and I can also see the point of some more heavy violence to create a certain atmosphere, but in this movie what was meant to be a serious plot, was utter rubbish, with people losing more blood than what would even be insides someone's body to begin with. It was totally unnecessary, unbelievable and without the ability to draw any emotional reaction. Not only this, but half the movie was in animation, once again preventing any attachment or interest in any of the characters wellbeing. I understand possibly this movie was meant to be of the 'arthouse' genre, but even so it was disengaging, ridiculous, boring and downright stupid, like someone made it up as they went along and ran out of time before the end. The only half decent thing throughout the whole movie was the music, but if that's of any interest I suggest downloading the soundtrack, rather than wasting your time on this atrocity. I sat through the whole thing, hoping the ending would redeem the rest of the film, but was wrong. I'm kicking myself for electing to watch this stupid film instead or Sherlock Holmes. Bah!
*This review contains some minor spoilers* I only just saw this film after several years of hearing and seeing people rave about it.Seriously...were they watching the same movie I just saw? When Tarantino did his "start in the middle, jump to the start, then skip to the end" trick in "Pulp Fiction", it was refreshing. It was new. It was different. In a film with a simple plot like PF, it worked.In "Kill Bill", the same technique is just downright annoying. I found myself thinking "Oh...right. If it worked once, it must work every time, right?" So far, Tarantino has a 50% hit rate as far as I'm concerned. PF was terrific. "Jackie Brown" was terrific. "Reservoir Dogs" was a load of guff, and "Kill Bill" has just joined RD.I am neither queasy, nor disturbed by cinematic violence. But the fight in the restaurant was simply absurd. Someone might like to point out to Quentin that having gallons of blood spray up like a garden hose just looks like...well...a red garden hose spray. It's not graphic. It's not disturbing. It's not even remotely interesting. The entire fight scene in the restaurant would have been mildly interesting if two things had been done: 1) A technical adviser with some medical training to point out to Tarantino that traumatic severing of limbs results in very little bleeding since arteries go into spasm, and...2) A decent fight choreographer could have been hired. You know...someone who doesn't fall for the tired old cliché of the bad guys attacking the good guy one at a time, while the rest circle around looking threatening.The only decent fight scene in the movie was the last one between Uma's character and O-ren. THAT was a good fight scene, and focused on the psychological side of kendo-style combat.Of course, it was marred by the fact that we already knew O-ren lost the battle because her name was shown crossed off the list in the opening five minutes of the film.It is this last fight scene that allows me to give this film a 2 out of 10.I don't expect "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" or "Hero" from Quentin Tarantino.But when "Mortal Kombat" has better fight choreography - and "Evangelion" has more believable imagery - there's something seriously wrong.
Bad fatally clichéd story bad directing over the top violence boring locations clichéd music. Quentin should not try to redo much superior stories. After the disastrously boring Jackie Brown I had hoped that QT would return with an actually watchable movie , but I was dead wrong. Good points are few but UMA isn't totally worthless and some of the dialogue is actually quite clever but those points don't make a movie especially when QT tries to cram everything into it even a lame manga segment. I can honestly say that the only film which I have seen recently that is worse than this one is Once upon at time in Mexico by Roberto Rodriguez stay away at all costs.


                
