It's easy to see why this film was the best picture winner of 1946. It is meaningful, epic, and heartwarming. The Best Years of Our Lives tells the moving story of three World War II veterans who return home from the war and realize that life has drastically changed since they left. They are forced to cope with the new lifestyle that they have been so far from, and resituate themselves in unfamiliar territory. The film paints a striking picture of post-war life for veterans. It is critical but remains patriotic and triumphant towards the issues it presents. I wouldn't call this a dark film, but it's no picnic either. It's a human film that brings to light the realism of the situation as best it can.The Best Years of Our Lives starts strong and then sort of goes downhill for me. It begins with tearful reunions as the three main characters return to their families who haven't seen them in so long. Changes in their lives are immediately noticed and addressed and one theme of post-war change is introduced after another. The beginning of the film does a fantastic job addressing these subtle things without outright saying them. There is a lot of room for interpretation in the beginning of the film that sets the stage for a deeply powerful film. The whole first hour of this three hour film wonderfully set up an intriguing set of ideals the film would address. It was all done with a plentiful helping of eloquence that struck me as very unique for a film from its time.But as the film went on it morphed more and more into just a typical romance. The post-war elements still lingered and were still borough up from to time to time, but the overall focus of the film really started to switch to romances between the characters. I couldn't bring myself to enjoy this nearly as much and so the film ultimately grew dull and boring in my eyes. The story presented was well thought out and well executed, but didn't go the direction I had hoped it would. I was disappointed to see some great elements raised in the first half of the film all but go down the drain in the second half when The Best Years of Our Lives transforms itself into a tale of romance that we've all seen too many times.Overall I wasn't crushed by the films change of pace and I can really say that I liked the film. It is very well made and deserved its best picture Oscar. It isn't exactly my cup of tea so I didn't enjoy it as much as someone who loves old romance films would. I can respect the film for its integrity and talent, but it's not something I would sit through again.


                
Nothing to add, really, to the encomia of praise contained below. I had missed catching this iconic flick several times on TCM and finally caught up with it. I had feared it might be somewhat of a soap opera, but it is an exemplar of the type of film that is able to make the viewer care very deeply about the characters portrayed. The bond that is clearly shown between the three central characters - men who had not previously known each other, either at home or during the war - shows us what a powerful bonding experience fighting for one's country is. They clearly "know" each other in a way that transcends geography and class. In a certain way this movie tells us more about WWII than many of the overtly action flicks.Another thing that this great movie brings home is the sad difference between moviemaking then and now. What we have here is clearly a powerful story about a shared national experience, with great relevance to people's lives and a strong social commentary, done up as a work of cinematic art, and Sam Goldwyn, William Wyler and all involved knew it. Compare this with the crass way that today's Hollywood churns out the dreck it calls "product", with its eyes on nothing else than the bottom line.
A note: those not familiar with the story of Harold Russell, the amputee who played Homer Parrish and went on to found AMVETS, would do well to look it up. His is a fascinating story. (And IMDB is just the place to look it up!)


                
Painting an authentic, distressing & heartbreaking portrait of post traumatic stress disorder and expertly led by riveting performances from its outstanding ensemble, The Best Years of Our Lives is a work of restrained craftsmanship that narrates its drama with deft composure and has a thorough understanding of its subject matter.The story concerns three United States servicemen who get acquainted while on their way back home after the end of World War II but face trouble in readjusting to civilian life. The plot follows their lives as each one of them struggles in their own way and has difficulties coping with the horrors of the past and living in the present.Directed by William Wyler (best known for Ben-Hur), it's astonishing just how much the film gets right in its depiction of the hardships faced by soldiers when they return home after serving in the battlefield and being changed by the horrors of it to such an extent that their very own home starts feeling like a place they can't recognise anymore.Through the crisis of our trio of characters, the film offers an interesting glimpse into the experiences of countless others who were affected by war and the struggle they faced with social readjustment. The way it captures the minute details only points to the extensive research & observation that went into the script, for the characters are fully fleshed & well-defined.The post-war era is illustrated in fine detail and the black & white images are sharp & crisply photographed. Clocking at nearly 3 hours, its runtime seems daunting at first but for the most part, the film is a smooth ride. Its length is felt only during the second half when the interest starts dwindling but the relaxed pace does allow our characters enough space to breathe.Coming to the performances, The Best Years of Our Lives features a terrific cast in Fredric March, Dana Andrews, Harold Russell, Myrna Loy, Teresa Wright & others, and nearly all of them are at the top of their game. March, Andrews & Russell play the trio of characters whose post-war journey is what this film is about. They are all excellent in their roles but the ladies aren't far behind and chip in with strong inputs of their own.On an overall scale, The Best Years of Our Lives is crafted with care, narrated with flair and is incessantly human in its approach. An essential viewing that handles its content with respect, its silent, thoughtful contemplation on PTSD is still as relevant today as it was at its time of release. Firmly grounded in realism & having stood the test of time all these years, The Best Years of Our Lives is one of the best offerings of its kind that's definitely worth your time & money. Thoroughly recommended.


                
TBYOOL is a courageous, valiant and unostentatious attempt at presenting the aftermath of the Second World War from the viewpoint of three war veterans – an bombardier general, a Naval crew member and an infantry platoon sergeant as they re-acclimatize with their old surroundings that they were deprived of during the War period. The three men's lives interconnect after they ride on the same plane back home; the rewarded bombardier named Fred Derry (Dana Andrews), who received almost four times the income that he used to as a soda jerk before the war, returns to his ordinary life and toils to make a respectable living, while Homer Parish (Harold Russell), an ex-footballer loses his hands and has to rely on mechanical hook prostheses; his defect makes him embarrassed and conscious about how his family and friends would perceive him. He also worries that his childhood fiancé would reject him because of his condition. Al Stevenson (Fredric Marsh), a banker in his late 40s deployed as an infantry platoon officer returns to his family, but finds difficulty in retaining his old self to connect with those around him. His wife Milly (Myrna Loy) seems bemused by his changed behavior, and his strange craving for alcohol. The three men, coming from different backgrounds, develop a closeness that spreads to their families and forms new relationships. Fred Derry, who had just spent some days with his newlywed Marie (Virginia Mayo), begins to realize her changed attitude towards him and position. The moment he enters, she comments about not being dressed appropriately for the occasion, and then admires the epaulets on his chest. She quits her job at the nightclub and now completely depends on her husband for their living without understanding that her husband can't fetch the income he used to while at war. During one of their exchanges, she comments rather offhandedly about how her husband had bad dreams about war at night. "Forget about it!" she says casually, while continuing to act as a spendthrift. Fred receives more empathy from Al Stephenson's daughter Peggy (Teresa Wright), and they eventually become close. Al Stephenson rekindles the paused relations with his wife and children by taking them to various entertainments. At bank, he becomes humane towards his clients, and judges them intuitively. Homer becomes reclusive and distraught, but is more open when he meets his two chums. When these men return from war, they abandon their new family – their fellow soldiers. Just imagine the breadth of anticipation in these people – leaving their families for war, and returning to their families by leaving another family during war. There is a chill, a sense of fervor when this happens - when you leave your families for a short holiday, you start thinking of them and getting homesick. These people would've had the sensations for a while, and then they would have to form new relations with the ones around them now. This atmosphere is lusciously felt among the three actors as they take their flight back home. Their journey is very well written and acted, especially by Russell. When they land, they go home one by one and the reactions from the family are deeply touching, especially when the Homer's mother lets out a stifling cry; I was deeply moved.I have to say the direction here is very different and modern compared to other films of the same period – there is not a moment of showiness and everything remains grounded to reality. There is an abundance of casual talk and the flow of the dialogs and scenes is never turbulent. You can hear a very dulcet music played during the scenes (which I did not favor though) and the only truly tense moment is at Butch's place later in the film. Now, I shall actually tell how I felt about the movie or rather how I perceive the movie's popularity:TBYOOL was made in 1946, a crucial moment in world history. The growth of post-modernism during the period gave rise to films depicting war moments and the aftermath of it. Therefore, I feel that this movie is culturally and historically relevant in the sense that America needed such a film to be made at that time. It was reflective of the political, commercial and human conditions in those times – look at Dana's face when his character enters the supermarket only to find it taken over by some other company. Observe how the camera never gets too close to the actors – it wants to document life through film and it succeeded in that way. William Wyler himself stated that Mrs. Miniver depicted war in a subdued way and after his own war experience; he made this film which never over-sentimentalizes. At times we feel these weren't actors and were real people being documented; only the romantic angle gives it a movie-like feeling. For me, an Indian teenager, it was somehow difficult to truly love the film as it was made for an age that I haven't witnessed – Mrs. Miniver, which had more dramatic elements, was more liked by me because I expected drama. Here I got the unexpected – an effort to show truth. The ensemble did a fine job of carrying the story. I think William Wyler wanted to highlight the importance of the story more than the performances of the actors – which though imperfect was honest. It could have been better acted with a better cast, but that may rob the credit of the story. Hence, I won't grumble much about the stiltedness in the performances at times. But I do bring attention to the mysterious disappearance of Al's son, who left to school forever perhaps!TBYOOL would've made a great and long mini-series had it been released now. The passing of time in the plot requires some more real-time to connect both with the story and the characters. But bravo to it's groundbreaking attempt at mirroring lives!


                
A really interesting and remarkable film, all the more so for being made in almost the immediate aftermath of the Allied victory of the Second World War when you'd expect Hollywood to produce celebratory even triumphal movies. Instead the viewer is presented with the intertwining stories of three battle-scarred veterans, ex-banker Fredric March, who tries to blot out his memories of the war from a bottle, shop assistant Dana Andrews, sufferer from PTSD, who low-status civvy-street return to the same lowly, indeed lower status job doesn't satisfy the ambitions of his floozy wife Virginia Mayo and young Harold Russell, a real-life vet and first time actor whose hands got blown off in a bomb explosion. Complications arise in particular when Andrews reciprocates March's daughter's attraction to him.The film trails its future intentions in its opening scene when Andrews returning pilot is unable to pay the fare of a regular flight back home, his place on the plane taken by the next in line, a rich middle aged businessman who can afford the cost of extra luggage which he gets carried around for him a black attendant. The way that nations treat their returning fighting forces still makes the news today, but back then was seen to be particularly patronising, unsympathetic and miserly. All three men struggle to adjust to everyday life and come up variously against snobbery, condescension and ignorance, but with all of them too, their wartime experiences have scarred them crippling them emotionally and making it hard for them to fit back into society after five years away.For me however, I just could have done without the romance that springs up between Andrews and Wright, which, sensitively written and played as it was, seemed to belong to a different, melodramatic if still modern movie with its outlook on divorce. Similarly, the happy ending that all three men get seemed a little too much to be playing to the gallery, because I'm pretty sure that it wasn't the case for many a returning vet at the time.The acting by all is sensitively and intuitively played, not forgetting the fine work by the women too, Mayo, Wright, Myrna Loy as March's worldly-wise wife and Cathy O'Donnell as Russell's loyal fiancée while director Wyler, ably assisted by master cameraman Gregg Toland is a masterclass in understatement. It would have been easy for Wyler to milk certain scenes and lapse into sentimentality but he never does so. A box office smash on release and much garlanded with Oscars, it's an excellent, engrossing and perceptive study of how the war affected the lives of both active participants and their families back home.


                
If I watched this movie before I watched Bicycle Thieves, maybe it would've ended up as just another post-war movie for me. But in combo of Bicycle Thieves, this movie tells the complete story from both sides of the war victors and losers; none get the happy live. War torn everything, even the lives of the victors. We see it first hand as how Homer struggles to regain himself after losing his hands. Fred also struggles as he has everything a decent man dreams of, but lacks any other skill that he has to bow himself down to the harsh reality of the available work. AL also struggles morally as he chooses to do the right thing. And as we see only Homer's and Frede's story closes out well, as Al's didn't really get a justified ending to his ordeal. The actors did a great job in bringing live to the scenes.
Spoilers herein.This treacly story hides some masterful filmmaking.Film is all about observation, except the observed usually contrive to make the observer feel unobtrusive.During this period, intelligent filmmakers were playing with the form so that often films were not only engineered observations but the matter of the movie itself was about observation.In this case, we have two acts. The first act introduces our three returning guys: one each Air Corps, Army and Navy; one each enlisted, non-com and officer; and -- so far as the conventions would allow -- from three different social strata. The central scene in this act is them observing the world (and particularly the everycity Boone City) from the nose of a B-17. It is then mirrored by the observations from the cab.Then we enter the film proper which is about three women as observers of these men. We observe a story about three women observing their stories. As the men are equally spaced, so are the observers. Each woman is a different type of observer:We have the quietly engaged observer (Milly), who appears to simply sit by, but who actually influences the action; the passive observer (Peggy) who forces the action to come to her as most movies do. That final scene where Fred watches her watching and them goes over is classic. And we have the Orson Welles type (Wilma) who actively engages in the action, driving the story and literally becoming its hands.I'm usually not a William Wyler fan. His "Dodsworth" was a real trial. He had worked with Gregg Toland a half dozen times before, but here is the first collaboration since "Citizen Kane." Toland by this time knew how to manage narrative within the staging. There's a really fine scene for instance where The wonderful Butch and Homer (catch the name) are playing piano. Al is in the foreground and splits his time glancing back at Fred on the phone. This particular scene was the template for the opening of "The Color of Money" where Paul Newman is well into a complicated sell job with a barmaid but listens to Tom Cruise cracking balls behind him.The staging is helped by having all the sets smaller than normal so the people pop out.A side note: you might want to visit Tucson some day. There are thousands upon thousands of obsolete -- and some not -- warplanes parked out there in the desert. It is a sobering experience, that.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.
It really is a nice movie and three hours flew by, but I honestly cannot see why is it considered one of the best movies of all time and how it won seven Academy Awards. I have no objections to it, because it is good, but nothing particularly fascinating...7/10


                
I think The Best Years of Our Lives is rightly justified as being on AFI's 100 Best Films list. However, It is a long and somewhat boring movie, but it's one of the first films to really show soldiers coming home back to, well, their regular lives again(The Best Years of Our Lives is the pioneer in that category, which is a very valid and significant topic in history). Going back to the same job, to the family you love, dealing with the same problems and/or new problems as is the case in Homer's situation. Life goes on and stands still for no one. The acting is fantastic in this movie, and it's also very significant in the fact that it is the very first film to ever use a disabled actor in a leading role, that actor being Harold Russell.Originally I thought Russell's performance was perfect except for the fact that he seemed very disconnected to the girl he came back to, and what I mean by this is, it didn't seem as though Russell was connecting the emotion to the scene with her but then I realized that his disconnection was perfect in the scenes with the girl he came back to(played by Cathy O'Donnell). The confusion of what he's feeling is the true genius of his acting with O'Donnell in those scenes, whether he meant to or not, it was great acting and Russell won the academy award that year for best supporting actor.This is a movie that makes you think and that will effect you more(that you will probably realize you like more) as it digests more in your system over a few days or a few months or even a few years. Every one of us can relate in some way to the 3 main characters in The Best Years of Our Lives and I, myself personally, have had a girlfriend just like Dana Andrew's character had in the movie, I mean delineated to the core, so I felt his pain in a lot of ways.Also, I really enjoy the real world feeling this movie generates. It's a real solid script as There are no Cliché speeches given here. Things are dealt with in a real manner, a true to life manner and I respect that about this film.The Best Years of Our Lives is a very significant movie, and should be seen, at least once, by anyone who considers themselves to be a film buff or film historian so that they can truly appreciate the pioneer movie of this kind of material.


                
Regarded by William Wyler fans as one of the director's best films, "The Best Years of Our Lives" is a fine but somewhat over-long melodrama which charters the lives of three American military servicemen who struggle with post-war civilian readjustment. The film pre-dates "The Men", a similar film by Fred Zinnemann and starring Marlon Brando, by almost four years. Our trio of veterans are Fred Derry, Homer Parrish and Al Stephenson, all of whom return from WW2 to their homes in Boone City, Ohio. The men belong to different military branches (Airforce, Army, Navy) and different social strata. Their early scenes are powerful. Wyler watches as the trio, who've never met one another before, share a military transport plane back home. Their journey takes them over an airfield packed with hundreds of disused aircraft, the machines discarded and dilapidated, echoing their own bodies. Later they fly over cities, towns and the American corn-belt; normalcy looks so far away from up here. The trio struggle to readjust to civilian life. Derry's wife no longer loves him and he resents his new job. Homer has it even worse. He's lost both hands in the war and now uses a pair of augmented hooks. Ashamed of these hooks, much of the film watches as Homer's family and sweetheart struggle to accept his disfigurement. Interestingly, Homer's played by Harold Russell, a real life veteran who really did lose his hands in the war. The film somewhat exploits him, too proud of Harold's hooks, his mutilated body, even as Wyler warmly bring us close to the kid. But a little goes a long way. While early scenes with Homer are powerful, by the 90 minute mark Wyler has lingered salaciously on these hooks far too long, treating them more as a special effect, novelty icon or freak show attraction. The film's last subplot involves Al Stephenson. He's given a job at a bank but is reprimanded because of his over eagerness to grant loans to retuning soldiers. But rather than fire him, Stephenson's boss compassionately schools the veteran; he teaches Stephenson how to properly function in the workplace.All three veterans are thus presented as outsiders (early shots show them sitting in B-17 observation bubbles, taxi cabs or dark corners, always cut off from others) who eventually learn that others are willing to accept them. The trio's perception that they are "no good" (Derry), that their masculinity has been shattered (Homer), that they are too old or out of touch (Stephenson), is thus shown to be "all in their head". Veterans, in other words, are accepted by all, it's up to them to accept themselves. The film was praised in the 40s and later by a whole new generation of critics in the 60s and 70s, for "deglamourising war" and pointing out how servicemen are effectively "used, mauled and discarded by the state." Overall, however, it's a very comforting film. Wyler's tone is one of piety, state, military and family units are all shown to be reassuring and willing to lend helping hands, America combs over its scars and moves on, family and work life go on uninterrupted and all problems are solved with relative ease. Wyler goes into some dark terrain – he came back from the war a wounded man and was determined to get this film right – but mostly reassures; roll up your sleeves and get back to business.The film sports some superb black-and-white cinematography by Gregg Toland. Its structure is also interesting – first act: men as outsiders observing the inside, second act: women as outsiders shut off from and watching men, third act: men and woman sharing the same conciliatory space – and works well whenever Wyler's not laying on thick domestic melodrama. The film ends powerfully at an aircraft scrapyard.8/10 – Worth one viewing. See the similarly ironically titled "The Lucky Ones" and "Paths of Glory".
The Best Years of Our Lives is a powerful film that deals with the hardships some war veterans have adjusting to civilian life. It is a well-made movie and it features a number of powerful performances - in particular Harold Russell as Homer Parrish. However, the run time is unnecessarily long (172 minutes) and the story drags in certain scenes. It's a Wonderful Life may be the most memorable film of 1946, but this Best Picture winner is definitely worth watching.


                
Title - The Best Years of Our LivesDate Released (UK) - 5 March 1947Average Rating at Time of Review - 8.1Position in IMDB's Top 250 at Time of Review - #249Directed By - William WylerStarring - Myrna Loy, Dana Andrews & Fredric MarshPlot - Three World War II veterans return home to small-town America to discover that they and their families have been irreparably changed.To be honest, I'd never heard of this film before it came time to watch it. That fact along with the three-hour runtime of the film made me a little apprehensive. A film needs to be pretty great to make me want to pay attention for such a length and given that I'd never heard of it, my expectations weren't very high going in. 
 What I did think was that it seemed like a brave venture; coming out just a short while after the Second World War this film looks at how war can negatively impact a soldiers state of mind. Not to mention it was surrounded by war movies filled with adventure and heroics. Watching the film, I realised that it wasn't the "pretty great" I needed to make me want to stick around, however it was enjoyable. Most importantly, it never felt like a slog - in fact I found myself quite surprised when the credits rolled. The fact that it never felt three hours long is a point in its favour. 
 
Was it a brave film? In theory, yes. Based off of IMDB's plot description, yes. In actuality, no.
 Whilst the film touched upon many very real issues that were (and still are) faced by soldiers returning home, I felt that they were sidelined pretty quickly in favour of the romance plot-line, in which two of veterans played critical roles. However the third veteran, the one with the most to say on post-war struggles given that he was an amputee, isn't important to the romantic sub-plot and has significantly less screen-time than the other two. 
 Of course, those two still face their own post-war issues, however they seem to forget them pretty quickly.PROS:-The Acting: The acting in this film was by far the best thing about. Everyone seemed to fit perfectly into their roles and there was no performance I felt was under-delivered. When any of the three main gentleman are on screen together the acting really sticks out and those were some of the most enjoyable moments in the film. The Music: Music really helps to hold this film together and is used to great effect when acting as a scene-transition. It also doesn't feel intrusive and feels as though it belongs in the scene, unlike some other films from this same era. The Writing: This is a film based around character interactions and they are done wonderfully and you can tell the cast had fun playing their characters. Even during the more somber character interactions, they are written flawlessly and makes the film feel very grounded, no doubt helped by the set design and costumes. CONS:The Plot: I can't think of a great many flaws in this movie, but I can easily think of one and it is perhaps the biggest flaw a film can have. As I mentioned above, this film is about character interactions. No matter how good those character interactions are they do not carry a film of this length, it must also have a compelling plot-line. This film falls short on that front. There weren't a whole lot of moments that spring to mind as "memorable" and if I were caught-off guard I imagine I would struggle to recap the events of the film, even at the time of writing this review three hours after watching. There is also the aspect I mentioned earlier in regards to the post-war difficulties being put to the side for a more cliché romance story. This film could easily have been an hour shorter and due to the lack of a strong plot, it gets a lower rating than it perhaps could have. For every one thing I enjoyed about the film, there were 2 scenes that were completely inconsequential to the overall narrative. 
 On top of that, the most compelling character in the film is the one with the least story and the film never really delivered on demonstrating issues faced by soldiers coming home. 
 What they did show, however, was important. That is what this film is and what this film was - important, especially during its time. There would have been many people going through a lot of the stuff that the three soldiers went through and this film showed to them that they weren't alone. Seeing even the most downtrodden characters lives improve throughout the film also allowed them to hope, when some of them may not have had the will for it.


                
Coming back form the war is one of the most popular movie themes of all times, especially for the Americans, since they didn't have the experience on fighting on the home ground for more than 200 years. Cultural and emotional shocks for both the veterans and their family and friends is the subject for one of the best movies that describes the returning of warriors after the WWII, William Wyler's "The best years of our lives".
Centered around three totally different stories, the crafty director manages to cover all the angles and to show that the things and the people are not who and how they seem like at the first look. The toll of war is basically same for all three men and their families, regardless of their approach, mental posture and starting and ending points. Although basically tragic, this post war syndrome story ends with a strong positive message for the generation of "baby boomers" it was meant in the first place.
"The best years of our lives" is a solid, real and strong script that manages to avoid most of its inevitable pathetic.
In its time, a groundbreaking film that both cynically and bittersweetly examines the lives of three post-wartime soldiers just returned from action in World War II. The picture is lengthy at nearly three hours, but it isn't the flag-waving weeper you might expect; the attitudes of the male characters are bitter, and their quest for survival in "the real world" often aches with despair (the females in the cast are far less interesting). Harold Russell won a Supporting Actor Oscar for his work (the real-life veteran lost both hands in combat), and his journey, though rendered a bit stilted by his inexperience as a movie performer, is indeed very memorable. Other Oscar wins included William Wyler as Best Director; keen-eyed Fredric March as Best Actor (although Dana Andrews here is just as solid); a second, special Oscar for Russell for his inspiration to the country; and, predictably, as Best Picture of the year. The Academy never could resist films about love and life on the homefront for our returning servicemen. *** from ****


                
Though "The Best Years of Our Lives" was adapted from "Glory for Me" by MacKinlay Kantor it reminded me of "The Road Back" by Erich Maria Remarque.I did not read "Glory For Me" but after having read "All Quiet on the Western Front" I had read The Road Back which was a sort of sequel. The Road Back tells the experience of young men in Germany who have returned from World War I and are trying to rehabilitate back into the society."The Best Years of Our Lives" is a similar story even though it does not have a very strong attitude towards war. It tells the story of three ex-servicemen (an airman, a sergeant, and a sailor) who have been trying to integrate back into society.While each one is trying to sort their life out,Fred (the airman) has come to realize that his wife who took a job as a night club waitress while he was overseas doesn't really love him.Al(sergeant)who developed a drinking problem in the army gets a promotion in the bank he used to work but he has had to struggle for the loan rights of the ex-servicemen.Homer(the sailor) cannot seem to face with his situation of losing his hands at the war and he doesn't want to tie his longtime girl Wilma to himself because of that. During their laudable struggles we see Wilma talking the sailor into marriage,Fred falling in love with the sergeant's daughter and Al's efforts to try to catch up on the growth of his son and daughter.The performance of Harold Russell, who lost both hands in the war and played an amputee is really commendable.He absolutely deserves to be "the only actor to receive two Academy Awards for the same performance." Actually there is a little bit latent praise on heroism and war in the movie.For example in a scene where the sailor Homer is offered some sundae by Fred who is working at the drugstore a guy approaches the sailor and implies he lost his hands for nothing and Homer is offended with some sort of exclamation "Some Americanism!So we're all a bunch of suckers?So we should've been on the side of the Japs and the Nazis?". I just did not feel that the director reflected enough attitude against war.It just feels like he kinda supported Homer's mindset.Of course the movie succeeds in reflecting harsh situation of the post-bellum life of veterans. We can see that they feel alienated,aloof and detached from their normal life and their loved-ones but it just doesn't fit right if you do not take an open side against war and its harsh realities and harms.


                
I've been on a WW2 kick since seeing Band of Brothers. I didn't really enjoy From here to Eternity last night. I'm a cynic that loves It's a Wonderful Life, so getting me to soften up about The Best Years of our Lives was a tough-sell. But enough scenes accumulate that began to soften me. No one giving Dana Andrews a chance.... Myrna Loys candor in admitting how many times she's hated her husband. By the time Wilma helps Russell go to bed, I definitely shed a tear or two and I was very touched by the ending. Although Frederic March seemed like he'd turn out to be a hard-on, I even liked him by the end. Although his son just seems to evaporate at some point. I may even buy a copy of it.
World War Two is over and three men meet on a plane on their way back home in the good old US of A. They're each from the same town, but otherwise they couldn't be more different in their war careers, origins, current occupations and future prospects. This movie is their story as their lives intermix and they all have to learn how to deal with normal life after the ravages of war.The filming for this movie began only seven months after the war and the movie actually contains an actual war veteran as one of its main characters. Harold Russell lost both of his hands in a training accident during the last years of the war, and likewise his character, Homer Parrish, has to deal with the loss. Truth be told, it took me a while to realize they had actually gotten an amputee for the role. I kept praising the special effects, especially for such an old movie...Details like that certainly give the film an authentic vibe, but then again, not a lot of time had passed since the war, and the long-term horrors and symptoms these men would have to fave had yet to surface. As such it's a bit of an idyllic version of what would happen, but I'd be lying if I said it wasn't pleasant to watch.Especially because the film is written and acted so well. I liked all of these characters, with special mention going to Peggy Stephenson (Teresa Wright). I liked how they could, despite their engulfing differences, look each other in the eye, find something that echoes and treat each other as equals. That's an important message, which we quite often forget.What more to say? It's a pleasant movie to watch, especially if you're looking for a drama after which you won't feel the weight of the world on your shoulders.


                
