At the beginning of this movie it seems like it is just going to be another World War II movie, but it is not. There are no battle scenes; there are only stories of the events from overseas. Not many movies show the after effects of war. Many will just show a lot of violence to try to do better in the box office. This movie focuses more on a touching story. Also, for this movie to be released at the same time as many soldiers were coming home, it was not only a timely movie, but it must have been important to the soldiers for it to be accurate.When we are shown Fred trying to catch a flight home in the opening sequence, he is not exactly welcomed with open arms. I can only imagine what that must have felt like to a returning veteran. Not only that, but also to come home and struggle to find a decent job and having no other choice but to return to work as a soda jerker would be a such a shame. That was hard enough for Fred, but Homer probably had it the worst. He came home with no arms and found his life was turned completely upside down because of it. I liked that in the end though things worked out for him. As for Al, he came home and had a pleasant family and his old job waiting for him. All three of them had different ranks from different branches of the military, but when they returned home they were just like everybody else trying to survive in the rat race, rather than the fox hole.Even though it is definitely obvious that their paths will cross again early in the movie, I liked how the three stories intertwined. The film also builds suspense subtly, possibly without the average viewer even realizing it; like how we never see Homer's hooks uncovered until near the end of the film. Naturally, Greg Tolland does a great job in the cinema photography department. Deep focus is put to good use; they did not use it just because they could. The scene where Homer is playing the piano and Fred is in the phone booth in the background is a prime example. I also noticed a lot of creative shots done with mirrors throughout the movie.I found this movie to be quite good overall. I usually do not like long movies like this unless there is something special or unique about it. What I liked most about this movie was good storytelling. That is what I always look for the most in a film and this one has it. I think the movie is deserving of the numerous awards it received.
Three WWII veterans return home to small-town America to discover that they and their families have been irreparably changed.Such a powerful film. At first the new lives of the soldiers seem to be facing small adjustments, such as their children's interest in "atomic energy" and "scientific efficiency". But soon we find that jobs are hard to find, and the wives and girlfriends sometimes met new people while the battles were fought.Although a serious topic, the film has the right balance of entertainment and drama. It never gets outright depressing, and things like depression and suicide are overlooked. But it still remains a valuable lesson: as bad as dying in the war is, sometimes the transition back to normalcy can be just as damaging.Although not one of the better known movies today (2014), "The Best Years of Our Lives" won seven Academy Awards in 1946, including Best Picture, Best Director (William Wyler), Best Actor (Fredric March), Best Supporting Actor (Harold Russell), Best Film Editing (Daniel Mandell), Best Adapted Screenplay (Robert Sherwood), and Best Original Score (Hugo Friedhofer). It still sits on the IMDb Top 250, just as it should.


                
Returning to life at home for our overseas fighting men was not as easy as we here at home may have assumed,and McKinlay Kantor thought it important to write about this fact.The novel caught the attention of Hollywood and soon we were seeing it well illustrated on the big screen.War changes a man to one degree or another,either physically or emotionally or perhaps both.The passage of time doesn't help either,and things at home change a little.Their children grow,and they were unable to be there to witness it firsthand.Again,this makes the adjustment harder.For 4 years,all they knew was war,and they find themselves faced with the impossible task of picking up where they had left off.It's a worthwhile story to engross yourself in.While much of what you see here represents a world that does not exist anymore,the difficulties of adjusting to life at home after war ring true still today.


                
All in all, I very much enjoyed this film. It tells of an aspect of the WWII era that is very seldom mentioned in any Hollywood film of that time period-that is how the returning veterans readjusted to the peacetime situation.The three main characters are not wartime buddies. They meet on their way home to the same small town. Each has a unique, but realistic situation. Fredrick March, as usual, is outstanding in his role as a typical suburban dad. The other actors give excellent performances as well.As other reviewers have mentioned, the issue of disability is also brought up in this movie-another rarity for an old movie. (Heck, a rarity even for a modern one!) This calls to mind the true costs of war, which are brought up both in their physical and psychological aspects. But, this is NOT an anti-war film. It is a realistic portrayal of the proud members of America's "greatest generation." All in all, I highly recommend this movie, particularly for younger people how may benefit from an appreciation of what the older generation did for us all. With some sense of guilt I only rated this movie with an 8, only because some people, hoping for an action packed wartime drama, might be disappointed.


                
With WWII over, movie studios quickly rushed to focus on vets returning home. "The Best Years of Our Lives" was probably the best example. It portrays various people returning home and how they have to readjust not only to their pre-war lives, but to the overall changing world. Probably the most interesting cast member is non-actor Harold Russell. Having lost his hands in the war, he plays a man with hooks where his hands used to be, and reminds people that he wants to be treated just like everyone else; he went on to win Best Supporting Actor and a special Oscar for the role, making him the only person ever to win two Oscars for the same role. There will probably always be debate over whether this deserved Best Picture more than "It's a Wonderful Life", but I certainly think that they did a good job with it. Very well done.


                
The memorable characters and story make "The Best Years of Our Lives" an interesting and entertaining drama, and it is also worthwhile and thoughtful for its portrayal of the problems of ex-servicemen and their families. Although the specific problems in the movie might not be such a widespread concern at present, it is nevertheless a thought-provoking reminder of how easily we forget or ignore the problems of others, even others who have served us well, and who have accepted risks and made sacrifices in order to do so.The cast is a good one, especially Fredric March and Myrna Loy. March's character is interesting in himself and also in his ways of reacting to the situations that his friends encounter. Myrna Loy excels as always in her interactions with March and the other characters. It is also hard to forget Harold Russell once you've seen this movie. Though he is inexperienced as an actor, he more than makes up for it with his sincerity and innocence.The story is also well-conceived and well-directed. The characters are put in a variety of situations that not only reflect some very common concerns of the movie's own era, but that also provide insights into human nature that go beyond the specific situations themselves. Despite a long running time, there is ample material to hold your attention and to make you care about the characters.


                
Sometimes a great film is made that can't be appreciated by future generations . THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES is one of these movies . It was a truly great film when it was released in 1946 , a fact reflected in its massive box office draw and awards . There's two things producer Samuel Goldwyn , director William Wyler and screenwriter Robert E Sherwood are saying with this film : The first thing is the sons , brothers , fathers and lovers who went away to fight in the war are not the same men who came back . The young men who fought and survived haven't in fact survived at all . They have more or less the same physical attributes but the war has killed part of them The second thing is to tell the men that home no longer exists . The civilian population might have watched the newsreels of the war but they don't owe you anything . Try not to be too bitter about that These themes run throughout the film some obvious , some latent . The most blatant example is Harold Russell as Homer whose casting sears itself in to the memory which is an image which the film is correctly remembered for . There's also the scene in the pharmacy with Homer and the " American patriot " which sums up the insanity of real politic in the new cold war where a year ago the Soviets were brothers in arms but are now the enemy . An audience growing up post 1945 might have very well forgotten that a long time ago the Soviets were the good guys You must watch this empathising with an 1946 audience to get its full benefit and whilst it remains a good there's a couple of elements that stop it remaining a great one . First of all there's an overuse of intrusive melodramatic music that dictates how we should feel when in fact THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES works best with its subtle elements . Secondly it suffers from being a bit too long and its storytelling could have done with at least 30 minutes cut out . That said it's still a very good film showing that the scars of war upon the individual and society never ever go away


                
This was one of the first films to explore what happened to those soldiers after the war, mainly because it was made the year after WWII was over. Plus it is one of the best of those films. Here we first meet three soldiers returning home, to the same hometown actually, and there their mutual history begins and ends. But even that trip back forms a kind of camaraderie where they want to keep in touch. There is banker Al Stephenson (Fredric March), a middle aged officer, sailor Homer Parrish (Harold Russell, a real amputee) who was the all American boy who excelled at sports and is engaged to the girl next door but now is missing both hands, and Dana Andrews as Fred Derry, a pilot who was just working in a drugstore before the war made him a temporary hero. This role for sure allowed Andrews to turn his stoic tight lipped image on its ear to a degree, as he was allowed to show the emotional wounds that can lie beneath the surface of a "war hero" returning home.Their stories all intertwine, especially the story of Fred and Al. The thing that they have in common? Al's daughter, Peggy (Theresa Wright), who falls for Fred. The problem is Fred is married. A bigger problem is Fred was married during the war when he was a pilot with all of the glamour that comes with it to Marie (Virginia Mayo), who doesn't really know Fred at all, and for sure doesn't know him as the pre-war soda jerk who doesn't make enough post-War for her to enjoy the nightlife that she loves so much. As Marie holds Fred more and more in open contempt, Fred finds him turning more to Peggy.Meanwhile, Homer is trying to face facts. He cannot survive without the help of others. He cannot even get dressed and undressed without somebody's help. How can he marry the girl next door or anybody else without being a terrible burden? It doesn't help that the girl next door doesn't care about any of this, but Homer thinks she'll care later.March's character is probably the most fortunate and the least explained of the three returning soldiers. He was a banker when he left, and he goes back to that job, however, this time he is evaluating the loans of returning soldiers as the bank thinks he has their perspective given his time at war himself. Al seems to have a drinking problem which his wife (Myrna Loy) tries to hide, and it is never really said where that drinking is coming from, or if it was there before the war. When Al and his wife see each other, for the first time in years, you can see they don't know quite how to act around one another. Loy and March do a great job - without any dialogue - of acting like they feel like honeymooners, which they probably both feel is ridiculous since they have been married for twenty years and have a grown daughter.There is one scene that I found as quite a surprise, seeing I was born 13 years after the war. A guy at a drugstore diner counter basically says the war was all trumped up for corporate profits, and that it's a shame a guy like Homer paid the price. His remark is met by a punch by Fred. Although that attitude was more common during and after WWI, apparently it was held by a few people in regards to WWII in spite of the overwhelming evidence that our nation was at stake.I'd highly recommend this one. Even though some of the social attitudes have long passed on, it gives you some things to think about that are relevant to today. A spouse can change their attitude towards the other spouse due to a job loss, you never know if a marriage is really a bad one and on the rocks unless you are in that marriage or if it is over, and people are still judged by "what have you done for me lately".


                
When I think of World War II, my mental image is of veterans coming home with post-traumatic stress, with a bad case of the drinks, and with no hands. It's not about glory or feeling good about a hard-fought job well done. Winning the most-important military conflict of the 20th Century be damned. Now we had to deal with the, ugh, return of guys who fought for a just cause. Didn't they know they're supposed to go into some kind of isolation tank until we need them to fight again?Okay, that was a series of cheap-shots and I dropped all those bombs for a reason. We don't want to deal with the hassle of doing right by the people who've shed blood and brain cells to keep us all safe from tyranny. Many movies have dealt with this topic, although not many of them have done it as well as The Best Years Of Our Lives. The 37th movie on both the 1998 and 2007 Top 100 lists released by the American Film Institute hits hard, but doesn't hit you with a sledgehammer.That's thanks to director William Wyler and writer Robert Sherwood (who was once a film critic). They make it clear that Fredric March (the drunk), Dana Andrews (the PTSD guy who has no place back home), and Harold Russell (the guy who actually lost his hands for real) are not necessarily better off back home in the American Midwest than they were during WWII. Teresa Wright and Myrna Loy play March's patient daughter and wife, respectively, who (unfortunately) are more saintly archetypes than they are real characters.Who's to judge someone for struggling to accept their post-war life on its lousy terms or for turning to the bottle to cope? There aren't easy solutions and The Best Years Of Our Lives (classic Hollywood product that it is) doesn't revel in their pain or just gloss things up for the camera. It suffers from over-length---although the first 30 minutes is positively brilliant---and the women have no depth at all, but the men are handled sensitively and with a keen eye. This is absolutely a fine film, quiet and true.If you liked this snapshot review, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 40-minute Best Years Of Our Lives 'cast...and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "The Top 100 Project".


                
It's a great movie, perfectly timed (1946), one of its kind. Its not a regular war movie, it actually is about what happens after the war is over and soldiers go back home. I don't think there are many (if any) movie dealing with this subject. The movie talks about various aspects that one faces after returning from the front. These aspects have been channeled through 3 different characters, and are in totally different lives but somehow they cross paths. Everybody in the movie has acted well but Fredric was the pick of the actors who was funny and witty as and when required which is kind of tough to assimilate in one character. But Fredric has done it to perfection. The movie could have been however a little shorter, since most of the walking scenes could have been edited and made this movie around 150ish minutes instead of 172. Myrna, an elegant beauty and actress does a nice job, her expressions tell you that she is watching and absorbing everything and trying to keep things calm all the time. All in all a good quality, enlightening movie.


                
From William Wyler comes a true American classic motion picture. The tale of three G.I.'s returning to their hometown after serving in WWII. Each must adapt to their new lives which have been forever altered by their war time experience. The film is now over fifty years old but its story and message is just as new as when this film came out. Two of the three G.I.'s future seems somewhat secure. Frederic March as Al Stephenson an Army Sergeant returns to his family although a little changed due to the natural process of maturing regarding his children. He returns to his job in a bank and even though he is hitting the booze a little the viewer gets the feeling that he will settle down in time and because of his war experience will be a better man for it.    Harold Russell himself a wounded veteran portrays Homer Parrish a Navy veteran who lost both hands during a sea battle.  He will be provided for financially by a disability pension and even though his life will never be what it was before losing both hands the viewer also gets the feeling that he will make out in time.  Then there is the Dana Andrews character Army Air Force Captain Fred Derry the only officer of the three.  He was nothing more than an attendant at the local drug store soda fountain before his country called.  He now returns to his hometown an Officer and a Gentleman and decorated war hero.  Sadly that's about all he has going for him.  This was the one character as I watched this film and thought `Now this guy would have been better off to have stayed in the service'  Of course he probably for the purpose of the story had been forced out due to man power cutting. 
  I found his plight the most interesting.  He looks full of confidence and intelligence in his dress uniform but when he steps out of it and dons civilian attire he resembles nothing more than a down on his luck schmuck. Perhaps no other actor during the time this film was made could have pulled that off except Dana Andrews.  He gives every indication that he will be come one of  many WWII veterans who returned to their hometowns and found life boring and mundane compared to the 100% life living experience of being in the military during time of war. Eventually many would wind up hanging out at the local American Legion or VFW posts knocking back the booze and reliving perhaps for many literally the best years of their lives.  The triple story line is handled very well with their paths crossing during the course of the film.  Romance, marital woes even a brief questioning of America's involvement in WWII  are also included in the picture.  A story such as this would never have been told on the silver screen before or even during the war but it showed that films were changing in both content and depiction.


                
An article in Time (7 August 1944) about the return of injured veterans, provided Goldwyn and his wife with the idea for the film. Accordingly, Goldwyn asked Mackinlay Kantor, a former Air Force correspondent who had been stationed in England, to write an original story based on his experiences. Kantor delivered the result, a 434-page novel entitled "Glory For Me", written in blank verse, in January 1945. Goldwyn then handed it to Robert E. Sherwood to use as the basis of a screenplay.After shooting for more than 100 days at a cost of over $2,000,000, Wyler edited his 400 reels to 16 - 2 hours and 52 minutes worth. Even though he was frustrated in his wish to cut it down by a further half-hour, Wyler considered it the best film he had yet made. His technique is faultless: His use of the mirror stratagem re-appears, this time in duet for the comic purpose of doubling the image of Fredric March in the megrims of the morning-after; the window enclosing remote (and now relevant) action can be found in the drugstore sequence where it brackets the managerial office with the busy salesroom below; the sparingly-used close-up has a poignant effect when it rests upon the wistful countenance of Harold Russell or details Teresa Wright's shattered face, caught in a moment of anguish.A particularly impressive episode is Derry's visit to the bomber graveyard - Wyler composes a symphony for this scene out of visual and orchestral effects. The music is excellent, Friedhofer's musical motifs frequently growing out of the scene itself, be it Hoagy Carmichael's piano jingles, Marie's strident radio, or the jungle rhythms of a nightclub band.
This film, expertly and passionately directed by William Wyler, is a fascinating glimpse of America immediately following World War II when scores of veterans returned home from dangerous and distant battles overseas. The story is centered on three servicemen who had each endured combat on land, at sea, and in the air and who found themselves back in their fictitious home town of Boone City, which was patterned after Cincinnati. Having dreamed for years of reuniting with those they loved in the familiar, peaceful environment of civilian life, are they adequately prepared for the transition from one world to another? Each of the men carry their battle scars, both physically and mentally, from the war to the relatively peaceful existence of Boone City. The sad irony is that Boone City is anything but peaceful. Check out the explosive drugstore scene that develops at one point.Aside from Wyler's outstanding direction, the screenplay by Robert E. Sherwood is very perceptive and often very touching. As moved as I was by the exchanges between Homer and Wilma during the film, I didn't realize just how powerful the impact of their dialogue was until I re-read the words in the "quotes" section on this website. I'm not ashamed to say that I bawled like a baby when I read at least some of these genuinely heart-rending words, and that is not a frequent occurrence for me.I can't praise the cast enough, both the leads and the support, especially the three men who played the vets, Fredric March, Dana Andrews, and, last but never least, Harold Russell, a non-professional actor who managed to grab two different Oscars for his very credible portrayal of disabled Homer Parish. I also agree with the one reviewer who stated that of the three leading men, the best performance was from the guy who didn't win an Oscar at all, Dana Andrews, in what may be the best role of his lifetime. That having been said, March's drunken speech before the bank bosses at the Cornbelt Loan and Trust was one of the movie's several "high" moments, and initially made me very anxious but finally relieved by the outcome.The three leading women, Myrna Loy, Teresa Wright, and Cathy O'Donnell were excellent as well. While this very important role launched O'Donnell's all too brief career ("They Live By Night", "Ben-Hur"), it was eventually stifled by producer Samuel Goldwyn only because she married the older brother of director Wyler, with whom Goldwyn was feuding, before she tragically succumbed to cancer at the young age of forty six.Virginia Mayo fought for the role of Marie Derry, the selfish, unsympathetic wife of Fred (Andrews), who had fallen in love only with his uniform. I'm glad that Mayo landed the part because no one could deliver Marie's nasty, sneering lines as forcefully as she did. "There are drugstores everywhere!" Ouch! That stings.


                
Readjusting to civilian life proves challenging for three World War II veterans in this sombre drama from William Wyler. Clocking in at close to three hours, the film has received some criticism about its length, but the ample runtime allows the film to properly flesh out all three protagonists and the camaraderie that develops between them as they meet while sharing a flight back to the same hometown. Fredric March won an Oscar for his portrayal of a banker unable to instantly return to being the shrewd businessman that his colleagues expect of him. Dana Andrews was not Oscar nominated but is equally as effective as a pilot haunted by nightmares of war and vexed by a selfish wife who believes that he could just "snap out of it" if he really wanted to. The best performance comes from Harold Russell though, a nonprofessional actor who really did lose his hands during the war. There is a truly heartfelt moment when he smashes a glass window and the film handles his uncertainty over whether his fiancée really still loves him very well. At times, the movie edges into melodramatic territory with Hugo Friedhofer's overbearing score no help, but it flows pretty smoothly in general. There also is a lot to like about how Wyler sets the film entirely in the aftermath of the war and yet manages to convey just how much each man is changed by his experiences.


                
"The Best Years of Our Lives" is a drama movie in which we watch three World War II veterans who are traveling together to their same hometown and they knew each other better. After they arrive there we watch the three lives of these three people that they are really change and now the three men have more things in common than before. Things are getting more complicated when these men are trying to find jobs but they face some different situations than these that they thought.I really liked this movie because it shows the true face of men who returned back to America from World War II and it also shows us what difficulties they faced. The direction of this movie which made by William Wyler is very good and I believe that it shows many interesting things. About the interpretations I liked the interpretation of Dana Andrews who played as Fred Derry and he was simply outstanding on it. Some other interpretations that have to be mentioned are Fredric March's who played as Al Stephenson, Harold Russell's who played as Homer Parrish and Teresa Wright's who played as Peggy Stephenson. The interpretation of the last one I can compare it with her interpretation in the movie "Shadow of a Doubt" which was about the same good.Finally I have to say that "The Best Years of Our Lives" is a great movie to watch and has to be considered as a must see movie. This movie combines very well drama and war with romance and this is something that makes this movie so special and good. I strongly recommend it to everyone.


                
Three servicemen return from WWII each facing their own readjustments. Fred Derry (Dana Andrews), Al Stephenson (Fredric March) and Homer Parrish (Harold Russell) get on the same flight. Sailor Homer lost his hands when his ship was sunk. He's modest but is concerned about his fiancée's true feelings. Everybody walk on egg shells with him. Al returns to his affluent life with his loving wife (Myrna Loy) and their kids Peggy and Rob (Teresa Wright, Michael Hall) but struggles nevertheless. Fred returns to his working class parents to find his wife Marie had moved out to work at a nightclub. The three men run into each other in a bar. Peggy falls for the married Fred.Homer is heart breaking in the very traditional melodramatic way. Al is fascinating in that he has everything and yet he still reconnect. It is well acted with a timely subject matter at the time. It reminds me of the various PTSD movies arising in more modern times. In fact, Fred is suffering from PTSD. I'm sure these characters really hit home for the returning GIs and their families.


                
Just caught part of this movie again tonight as part of TCM's annual "31 Days of Oscar" special programming in celebration of the Academy Awards.Although I've seen the whole movie before, this is one of those movies I can't help but watch and be drawn into, whenever it's on.The acting, the characters, the real-life stories and challenges, the variety in pacing, the underlying music, the sentiment snapshot of that important transitional period in our history, and the kind of "offbeatedness" of some of the glimpses back into that era and time. There's always something to admire and to appreciate once again when it's on. Check out the many creative scene set-ups and the flow of the camera, especially the scenes involving mirrors and other artistic framing. Also, the deep focus shots, too. Quite a lesson in creative directing and innovative camera technique on its own.And then -- there is Myrna Loy! Something about that coy, knowing, impetuous smile/smirk and those big expressive eyes,reminiscent of "The Thin Man" series, gets me every time. What a wonderful wife to have!(p.s.- Teresa Wright always reminds me of a younger Donna Reed, too.)


                
William Wyler's "The Best Years of Our Lives" is today counted among the best films of all time. At the time of its release it was a smash hit at the box office while later taking home seven Oscars.The story concerns a trio of WWII veterans returning to their homes in small-town America after the war. Each finds difficultly in picking up where they left off, both in terms of their place in small-town society and their relationships with their loved ones. It is worth noting that the screenplay resulted in one of the film's Oscar wins.The cast is quite good and two of the individuals (Fredric March & Harold Russell) took home Oscars for their performances. Russell's performance is especially noteworthy since he wasn't even a professional actor. In fact, Russell also landed a second, honorary Oscar for 'bringing hope and courage to his fellow veterans through his appearance' in the film. The other male star, Dana Andrews, wasn't recognized with a nomination but I think that he gave a fine performance as well. As for the women (who also weren't recognized with any nominations), Teresa Wright leads the way while Myrna Loy & Virginia Mayo contributed solid performances as well.Wyler's direction is impeccable and deservingly earned him an Oscar. The editing by three-time Oscar winner Daniel Mandell also earned an Oscar while Gregg Toland's cinematography is noted for its use of deep focus. Hugo Friedhofer's Oscar-winning score also deserves mention.It's easy to see that the film is finely crafted but all of this would have been for naught if the story wasn't both authentic and touching. While I'm not exactly a huge fan of this brand of romantic drama I have to admit that the film did not leave me unmoved. Naturally, the 63 years that have passed since the film's release have served to date it somewhat but I believe that its status as a classic is well deserved.


                
William Wyler was inarguably a supreme Hollywood craftsman who thrived under the studio system from the 1930s to the 1950s, an important example for today's filmmakers to discover and follow. His painstaking methods with actors are cruel and insensitive, though there is something to be said when he has directed 31 different Oscar-nominated performances by 31 different actors, 13 of them having won. What is so important about his film-making style is his subtle language that holds complete bearing over the tone of his films, a technique based on long takes and the dramatic possibilities of deep focus shots.This suitably extensive film begins right after WW II, as discharged servicemen played by Dana Andrews, Harold Russell and Frederic March meet while hitching a ride home to a Midwestern city in which they all happen to live. One was a captain and bombardier who still endures from nightmares of combat. Russell had been in the Navy and lost both of his hands with mechanical hook prostheses in their stead. March served as an infantry sergeant fighting in the Pacific.Wyler himself was commissioned a major in the Air Force during World War II and on his return to Hollywood shot The Best Years of Our Lives. Having such fresh and similar experience to his characters, this should have been at least as powerful as The Heiress because of how personally he perceives it, just as he did The Heiress. And while it holds touching passages, this epic hometown drama does not pack the wallop it promises. It is a traditional melodrama about the troubles of servicemen struggling to be relevant to life in postwar America and readjust to the lives to which they return, and as this it is good, not dull or badly made by any means. Despite a flat performance by Russell, one for which you can't blame him, for he never was an actor before but a serviceman himself who trained paratroopers with explosives with an outcome identical to that of his unfortunate character, this film is capably dished up by its especially good performances by Fredric March, Teresa Wright, Virginia Mayo and Hoagy Carmichael, who can act out dialogue while playing the piano, in addition to clever deep-focus setups.


                
This film ranks up there as one of my favorites.. I love movies from the 40's, especially when dealing with WWII. This film is about the lives of servicemen upon their return home after the war. For them, surviving the war was just the start. Now they had to survive reintegrating back into society, their family, their jobs (if they still had one).I think this film brings up so many important issues these men and their families faced. WWII took place before I was born, so I do't have any personal reference on which to draw. So it is eye-opening for me to be able to get the personal perspective of what these brave men and women faced. Granted, the movies aren't exactly telling the whole truth, but it is informative nonetheless. It gives us a snapshot of that time and generation.The cast couldn't have been better in their roles. I was drawn into all their stories, not just by their good acting but the superb script writing as well. Dana Andrews' performance stood out most to me - he was so likable and then you hate the fact that he has such a cold, heartless wife. I'm sure this created a lot of conflict in the typical 40's viewer, as it has you rooting for a divorce so that it clears the way for sweet Teresa Wright's character.I am so grateful for the sacrifices made by the servicemen and women in our country. This film is a reminder of those sacrifices, not only on the battlefield, but at the home front as well.


                
From Oscar winning director William Wyler (Wuthering Heights, Mrs. Miniver, Ben-Hur, Funny Girl), the title is a good memorable one, and I found out later that it featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I was very keen. Basically the Second World War has ended, and infantry platoon sergeant Al Stephenson (Oscar nominated Fredric March), decorated Army Air Forces captain and bombardier Fred Derry (Dana Andrews) and aircraft carrier airman Homer Parrish (Oscar winning, Honorary Oscar and Golden Globe Special Award winning Harold Russell) are returning home. Before the war, Al was a bank loan officer, and he is returning to his family, wife Milly (Myrna Loy) and the grown up children, daughter Peggy (Teresa Wright) and college freshman son Rob (Michael Hall), but it is obvious he is struggling to readjust to a normal life, and becoming alcoholic. Before the war, Fred was working in a drugstore as a soda jerk, this is the only job he can return to, and he has found out his wife Marie (Virginia Mayo), who he met and married in training before he left, is working as a nightclub waitress. Homer lost both his hands after they were severely burned, so he relies on mechanical hook prostheses, and he knows that his parents and fiancée Wilma Cameron (Cathy O'Donnell) are finding it hard to cope and deal with his disability. Peggy meets Fred and becomes attracted by him, and she becomes jealous towards him and Marie, even contemplating breaking them further apart, but father Al tells Fred to stop seeing her, and as a result the two mens' friendship is damaged. Fred then finds out that his wife Marie has been having an affair with another veteran, Cliff (Steve Cochran), and she admits to it saying that she wants a divorce, and with that he decides to leave town, leaving his father with parting gifts, but he does get a new job. Homer meanwhile doesn't want to burden Wilma with his hard life, and he bluntly demonstrates his need for help doing certain things, but she makes him believe she loves him anyway. They agree to get married, and Fred is the best man at the wedding, and Homer and Wilma are very happy, as are Fred and Peggy who embrace their feelings because of his divorce. Also starring Hoagy Carmichael as Butch Engle, Gladys George as Hortense Derry, Roman Bohnen as Pat Derry and Ray Collins as Mr. Milton. The cast all do their parts very well, with March as the character who suffers terrible wartime nightmares, and especially Russell whose real life disability makes his performance both moving and powerful. The direction by Wyler is suitable for the emotional and realistic story, the most compelling of the three men of the plot is of course the poor man who lost his hands, I will admit it could be shorter, it is almost three hours, but all in all it is a worthwhile drama. It won the Oscars for Best Film Editing, Best Music for Hugo Friedhofer, Best Writing, Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Sound, it won the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won Golden Globe Best Motion Picture - Drama. It was number 37 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, it was number 11 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 6 on The Ultimate Film. Very good!
The stories of three men (Fredric March, Dana Andrews, Harold Russell) returning home from WWII and having problems readjusting to civilian life. Andrews has to deal with dissatisfied wife Virginia Mayo; March has to adjust to being back with wife Myrna Loy and their two grown children; Russell has had his hands blown off in war (he was played by non-actor Russell who really had lost his hands in the war).I first saw this back in the 1980s at a revival theatre. I remember being totally bored and fighting to stay awake. I think I was too young to appreciate it. Years later I started watching it casually on TV--and liked it. I was almost never bored and the stories pulled me in. It is exceptionally well directed by William Wyler and virtually the entire cast is flawless. The women in the movie actually give the best performances. Loy, Mayo and Theresa Wright are all just great. Andrews also was very good. March, however, came across as very unsympathetic and Russell was terrible (but he never was an actor).However it's way too long--three hours is a bit much. This movie could easily lose an hour. And this movie was (for its time) relevant and pretty shocking. Today it still is relevant (sadly with the war we have now) but no longer shocking. I found many of the situations contrived and forced and there were some REALLY unbelievable happy endings all around. Still this should be seen for just the acting and directing alone.A good film but no masterpiece. I give it an 8.


                
The post apocalyptic atmosphere of the untainted 40's and details that mention much about the spirit of a veteran make this movie one of the best I have ever seen. This movie reminds me of "fear and loathing in Las Vegas" in many ways, despite the differences. Patriots adapting, fear and loathing.This movie is about three men and the way they struggle to adapt their minds to the changes back home in America after being overseas, after the second world war. Traumatic but still strong with details that almost blew my head of.I love this movie despite the traces of some sort of "straight" propaganda that also is significant for that specific age and its spirit.


                
Best Years of Our Lives:(Minor Spoilers)I do enjoy the old movies, especially the Academy Award winners. For 1946 or so, the entry The Best Years of Our Lives was an interesting drama.Three guys all going back to the old hometown to see what's changed and to return to their families. One guy was married to a blonde floozy and went off to war, quite decorated, and quite shy about talking about his war experiences. His occasional flash-backs and the crush he has on a buddy's daughter, make for some tension. He was a bomber and highly decorated, yet can't make his marriage work and is relegated to the same job he quit: a soda jerk! Another is a Navy man, who lost both hands in a fire on a ship. He has "hooks" and is pretty versatile with them. Unfortunately in small town USA, people are not as forgiving and easily shocked. His mom sobs that her son is so crippled. His girlfriend actually doesn't mind, but he's too much feeling sorry for himself to notice. This character was hard for me to like, wallowing in self-pity. He did finally snap out of it, though. <U+F04A> Finally we have an older guy who is returning to his wife and kids. The wife is played well by Myrna Loy (of Thin Man fame) and her comedic style pops out once in awhile as she plays a straight part. Her daughter falls in love with the airman with the blonde floozy and swears she will break up the marriage and take him for herself. "Who are you, God?" intones her father. ABottom Line: Interesting story on how each man deals with family and how things have changed since they shipped out. Acclimating to a new life is hard, and going into denial through alcohol or wallowing in self-pity just don't work. One of a kind film.Features: Interviews with two actresses, elderly now, express a lot of what was going on with the set, the director and the actors. Quite entertaining. Directed by William Wyler Writing Credits Robert E. Sherwood ... (screen play)MacKinlay Kantor ... (from a novel by) (as Mackinlay Kantor)Cast Myrna Loy Milly Stephenson Fredric March Dana Andrews Teresa Wright Virginia Mayo


                
This is one rather fine and almost 3 hour long epic running drama, that focuses around 3 WW II veterans from the same town, going back home after the war had ended.It's a real interesting and subtly made drama, that isn't ever being melodramatic but always realistic and compelling with its themes and emotions. The movie handles some great subjects, especially for its time. You have to consider that this movie got made really just after the war had ended. Yet it already handles some of the themes war WW II veterans and also lots of later war veterans had to deal with. The world, their families and themselves all changed, with brings along some at times devastating effects but also often some hopeful things. They have to pick up their 'normal' lives again, with a job, their wives and the rest of their families. It shows how the veterans were often being treated and looked upon. This isn't just a movie glorifying the WW II veterans but also one that has the guts to be bold and straight-forward, by showing life how it truly is but never without the respect those deserve who all fought in the second world war.I guess you still have to be an American though to fully appreciate this movie. You could say that this movie is a real Americana one, filled with pride and hope, for and about a generation, that should make American's feel warm from the inside. Not that the movie is being overly patristic or anything, it's just pride in a good and understandable way, that is still best appreciated by American's themselves.The movie is being quite epic, mostly due to its long running time. Director William Wyler used its long running time to slowly set up its characters to build up the right themes and emotions for the movie. It makes "The Best Years of Our Lives" effective as a genre movie and perhaps still more accessible and less sappy than some of the other similar dramatic movies made during the same decade.It's of course also really a real actors movie. Luckily the movie has some great actors in it, such as Fredric March, Myrna Loy, Teresa Wright and Dana Andrews. Real WW II veteran and amputee Harold Russell attracted the most attention at the time and even took home two Oscar's for his one role in this movie. He received a special award dedicated to him 'for bringing hope and courage to his fellow veterans through his appearance'. He lost both of his hands during the war due to exploding TNT during an exercise and ever since used hooks to get around. It's amazing how well he got around with them and how much he still could manage with it, without the help of others. This is mostly what earned him the Oscar because in all honesty I sincerely doubt that he would had won an Oscar otherwise. It's not like he is bad but he just wasn't a real actor anyway and also only appeared in just a few movies throughout his life.Simply a great genre movie, that also still applies this present day with all of its themes.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
