This is a comedy spoofing the best and worst of TV from the 1980's.  Garth Marenghi is a horror writer who created a show during the 1980's so deep and meaningful that the networks banished it to storage.  Now in 2004 the vaults have been opened unleashing it for the world to enjoy. By taking inspiration from classic shows including "Twin Peaks" and "The A Team" a fantastic show has been created.  It centers on a Hospital where the docs carry guns and fight supernatural beings.  The scripts are deliberately cheesy, the editing is poor and the acting is very wooden.  But that is what makes it so funny. There are even those alwful end tags popular with American shows were the main characters laugh at some rubbish joke.  If you lived during the 1980's you must see this!


                
"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace" is another original and hilarious comedy show that could only have been made in Britain. It shares a lot of its random humour and imaginative story lines with "The Mighty Boosh". Appropriately, Noel Fielding and Julian Barratt have guest appearances here, the latter of which steals every single scene he's in. The whole cast is amazing, though. From Matthew Holness as the ridiculously narcissistic title character, Matt Berry (who might be a bit of a one trick pony, but really gives the performances of his life on this show) and the ever so underrated Richard Ayoade, who also directed and co-wrote the whole thing (which kind of makes him the real life Garth Marenghi, come to think of it). You won't see such great bad acting anywhere else.The show makes fun of Stephen King-like horror writers and cheaply made detective-, hospital- and horror-series all at the same time. What comes out is a weird mixture of doctor-cops who run around a cursed hospital with guns trying to deal with all sorts of spooky occurrences and creepy creatures (while having to deal with the burden of daily admin). Garth Marenghi himself calls it "flat out, balls to the wall-horror".Every single line, every bad editing cut, every cheap costume is a big laugh. From the music to the hair to the stupid story lines, the show is dead on in its observations of a typical weekly TV series from the late 70's and early 80's.Unfortunately, this kind of humour didn't seem to resonate too well with a mass audience, so another series is rather unlikely. That's too bad, because I'm sure they could have come up with another set of six fantastic episodes. As it is, the show is a hidden gem for those who get it and will become even more of a cult favourite over the next few years.


                
Recently I watched the first episode of a parody series I didn't care for (The Spoils of Babylon) and when I read the user reviews for that series, one reviewer compared it unfavorably with a British series I'd never heard of, Darkplace. So I hunted it down (found it on youtube).I loved it instantly. There's a crazy handshake moment early on that had me laughing riotously. The show perfectly captures bad entertainment in the same way The Lost Skeleton of Cadavra does.The series has a wonderful eye for detail. Badly dubbed dialogue, weird jump cuts, and nice little touches like an antenna on the hospital roof that any decent director would keep out of the shot. Clearly a tremendous amount of thought went into this.While the series is consistently funny throughout its 6 episodes (plus an amusing interview extra created for the DVD), I'm not that sad that it didn't get anymore. This strikes me as something that would be difficult to maintain.Now on to check out the other show recommended by my fellow Spoils-of- Babylon hater, Danger 5.


                
