I watched this show with trepidation expecting it to be another hit and miss, or even plain miss, of a mini-series. I was more then pleasantly suprised when the show proved not only to be hilarious but a much needed break from the vapid 'reality' shows that have come to expunge any palatability from our viewing pleasure. The 'bad acting', or 'showing the truth' as Garth puts it, is amazingly funny. This is especially true in the character of Garth's boss and the chef (The Office's Stephan Merchant). Overall, it can tend to be a bit tedious by the end but at the moment it is hysterical and I can't wait to see where they go from here.


                
I wasn't fully sure what to expect and nearly didn't watch it at all, that would have been a mistake. Three episodes in and I'm hooked and I'm slowly working on all my friends too as it would be a shame if this slipped by without getting the audience it deserves. I was a bit concerned after the first episode that the jokes would quickly wear a bit thin but this hasn't proved to be the case. I don't think it will be everyone's cup of tea but well worth trying because if it is you're in for one of the funnier half hours of television you'll see all week.


                
Imagine a place between tuseday and purple - between the eighties and chest wigs.  Now think back to Saphire and Steel, Deathwatch and certain episodes of Dr Who.  Welcome... to DarkplaceDodgy effects (forgivable - and amusing) and dodgy scripts (unforgivable - and hysterical) ruled the roost shamelessly and here they are aped to the max.  I've only seen the first episode (as well as the 'Official' Garth Marenghi website) and I screamed in a miasmous catatony - I gaped shudderously at the incomprehousity of the spectacle - I laughed till I stopped laughing.  It's looking good - and I hope it's a short run, as these things can be flogged silly.As it stands, it is refreshingly sarcastic about nerd orientated broadcasting - and amazingly would stand as a series from the period. Whiffs of Michael Mann, William Friedkin, HP Lovecraft, Starsky & Hutch and hospital based soaps should have folk wincing and laughing till doomsday.
Plot snippets so far: the guy went axe happy in a trout farm.  Nuff said.


                
This is one of the best things on tv today, if you ever get half a chance to watch it then DO!!!! so cheep it's priceless! 9 out of 10


                
Someone sent me a link to an episode and I reluctantly clicked it expecting the worst. From the initial intro I started smiling and found that the humor in this connected right to my funny bone. I spent the rest of the day watching the rest of the episodes and forgetting all my responsibilities. After getting to the last episode a frown crossed my face as there were no more. I ended up watching "interviews" with the cast which were also very funny. It reminded me of so many shows in the 80's and really nailed the titles and music. Sometimes it went really over the top for groaners, but they quickly got back on track. A wonderful find from someone in the US who has never heard of this before. Wishing for more!


                
I first watched this show about 4-5 years ago, I had bought it on DVD because I had heard such great things about it. I was amused, but slightly disappointed. It didn't immediately appeal to me. However, about 1 year ago, my friend convinced me to give it another shot.When trying to describe how this show is produced, it is impossible not to contradict oneself. The point of this show is to laugh at the shoddy production, writing and acting. However, the way this show is acted, written and produced is, for me the best, the most observant, yet ridiculous, that I have ever seen on British comedy television. My favourite example of the writing has to be in episode 3, 'Skipper the eye child', when Rick Dagless m.d. (Garth Marenghi) says:You know what Sanch, you can dissect a heart, but you'll never know what makes it skip a beatThis programme, for me is pure genius, because Matt Holness, has really nailed the genre on its head. This programme not only makes me think of and laugh about shoddy horror shows, or appalling writing, it also makes me think of the times that I thought that I was a talented writer when I was younger, and wrote lines similar to the one above, feeling very proud of myself.This show should not be missed, and if you were unsure about it the first time, give it another shot. You will not be disappointed. It comes second to Arrested Development for me, and that is the only show that I would ever rate 10/10.


                
Anyone who has sat through the low budget adaptations of popular authors such as Dean Koontz, Stephen King or the cheap "near adaptation but not so close as to get sued" made for TV films will LOVE this.  The series is set in a hospital which is built upon a gateway to hell, which Garth Marenghi's character opened once a short while ago with a friend with a dubious background.  That's about it for the plot without spoiling it.  It is such a good parody, so accurate that it has the author who has "written more books than he has read" appears as the main character, writing, producing, and also having his best producer friend appear as the hard nosed hospital director (with disastrous consequences).  There is a parody of everything in this from Brian De Palma's "The Fury" (I haven't ever blown up but I think I have a good idea what it's like!!?) to Phantasm (Except the flying orb is replaced with a rabid stapler(I'm serious it works)).  This will not appeal to the masses but will be a big hit with the people that make cult hits, hits.  The creators ARE the target audience so they know exactly what you want.  I haven't been this excited or entertaining since Evil Dead.  I would give the filmmakers 10/10 for effort and 8/10 for the result.  Well done Channel Four.


                
This is a show about the another show (this one being from the 80's!) that was lost to the world. The series begins with Garth himself reading from his book while ominous music plays in the background. The camera pans and zooms into his face, "Something was pouring from his mouth. He examined his sleeve. Blood? Blood. Crimson copper smelling blood. His blood. Blood. Blood. Blood.... and bits of sick."What makes this show so great is the commitment Ayoade and Holness put into the story lines and the humour behind them. I think this show caters to all levels of humour, but not necessarily all types of humour. So this show might not be for all people, but thankfully strange and truly bizarre humour is becoming more mainstream and a "thing". Man, I'm struggling to find ten lines to describe this because it's so easy to do it in just one - "Watch it!"


                
It's somewhat ironic that Garth Marenghi's Darkplace, a comedy about a long lost horror series re-emerging during a creative drought was overlooked on its release. The show didn't exactly set the ratings afire when it was aired, but it is tailor made for DVD where all the intricacies can be appreciated. The writing abilities of creators Richard Ayaode and Matthew Holness are on top form throughout, the pair showing a talent for sly humour and witty invention. Like the equally strong but in no way similar Peep Show, Darkplace is a program that can be watched multiple times and still remain as fresh and hilarious as it did first time around, how many American sitcoms can boast that claim?The series follows a show-within-another-show format. Holness plays Garth Marenghi, a leather clad purveyor of trash horror novels very much in the James Herbert mould. Back in the eighties, he wrote, directed and starred in 'Darkplace,' a hospital-set sci fi/horror series so disturbing, so terrifying, that the powers that be consigned it to the vaults where it sat gathering dust for nearly two decades, only to be returned to the screen in 2004. The episodes however are incomplete, with huge chunks of footage missing and so to make up the running time, Marenghi, his producer/co-star Dean Learner (Richard Ayaode) and fellow actor Todd Rivers (Matt Berry) have had interviews recorded, snippets of which make up the gaps.The end result is a fantastic parody of eighties trash television. The sets are wobbly, the violence over the top, the acting stilted, the scripts hackneyed and the editing haphazard (Dean Learner has a blood stained spade magically appear in his hand in one particularly memorable incident). Consequently, the humour does not stem from jokes but instead from the terrible production and acting, as well as Marenghi's misguided belief that he has created a timeless masterpiece.If the show has a highlight however, it is undoubtedly Richard Ayaode's dual role as Producer Dean Learner and Darkplace boss Thornton Reed. His inability to read his lines and interact with another cast member at the same time is hilarious and his behaviour becomes increasingly outlandish as the series goes on. His improv skills seem to have been allowed to run riot throughout and while the majority of his lines aren't necessarily funny, when they're delivered in Ayaode's distinctive voice, they become side splitting.When it all comes down to it though, no amount of words can really describe what Darkplace is like, it's a show you have to experience first hand. Anyone raised on eighties television shows like Deathwatch or the original Doctor Who will find plenty to chew on and it's even worth watching with the commentaries switched on. Holness, Berry and Ayaode remain in character for every single one and the result is the funniest DVD commentary since Spinal Tap. Very highly recommended indeed.


                
I'm Garth Marenghi. Author, dreamweaver, visionary, plus actor. You're about to enter the world of my imagination. You are entering my Darkplace. Garth Marenghi is genius, and as Dean Lerner himself said:"Garth is the most significant artist that I have ever worked with, and I have worked with Lulu and four other people.". And when Dean Learner says that. At the beginning of every episode Garth Marenghi reads excerpt from his novels that only further proves his masterful writing abilities (Mike stared in disbelief as his hands fell of from 'Slasher'.). Music by Stig Baasvik, based on melodies originally whistled by Garth Marenghi.'Garth Marenghi's Darkplace' is fantastic horror and behind the scenes spoof. Probably the best there ever is. It ran only six episodes before the show was cancelled because the low viewer numbers, and it is sad. But on the other hand, the long run would have become repetitive and finally turned stale. Six twenty five minute long episodes is perfect length for such absurdity. The writing is masterfully bad as the acting and directing (all of this is on purpose of course). Constant continuity errors and bad dialogue offers laugh after laugh. But not most of the jokes are on your face, at least half the jokes are very subtle that you notice them on the second (or fourth or even on the sixth) viewing, or when someone points it out for you. TV show inside TV show have never been funnier, and the really funny part about it is that I actually cared about the show and characters Garth Marenghi had created. Gun doting doctors in hospital constantly plagued by supernatural forces can never be any cooler than in Garth Marenghi's imagination.


                
this is one of my all time favourites, it's up there with coogan, and, vic and bobthe comedy is so good. some of it is complex, some of it is more obvious, but every single thing in this programme, was thought out, and is comedy gold.a lot of people don't like it, but really you need to have the right sense of humour, and understanding.the characters are funny, the horror spoofs are funny, even the way it looks makes me laugh. it's just great.the fact that there are only 6 episodes is a very sad thing.i would love to see more, but i think they will leave it as a series that will go down in history to all the people with a great sense of humour, as prolonging the programme may ruin something legendary. however, i still think they should continue in some way, perhaps a new theme. "garth marenghi's .....". still with the same type of humour, still made the same way with the same people, put with a different setting, and characters.anyway this "garth marenghi's darkplace" is one of the greatest comedies ever, and i will never forget it.


                
