Possibly the most hyped new show of the 2008-2009 season. I've been a fan of Abrams' work for a long time. LOST is one of my favourite shows and ALIAS was excellent too. I even enjoyed Six Degrees. But this series is something else entirely...just not in the same league at all. Its incredibly slow, incredibly dull, and extremely monotonous, and by 20 minutes into the pilot I was feeling bored and annoyed at being subjected to such a slow, boring show.First off, lets get one thing straight. If you're a fan of awesome serialised story lines spanning entire seasons e.g. 24, LOST, Heroes, you will be sorely disappointed. Abrams has stated that he wished to "recapture the 90's vibe" of the X-Files and put it in the 21st century. Pretty much all the episodes will be therefore be "self-contained story lines" much like the boring by-the-numbers episodes one can find on CBS cop shows and medical shows like Grey's Anatomy.The show seems to be at its best when it, ironically, shies away from the paranormal stuff and displays simple things like romantic conversation between Mark Valley and Anna Torv. Anna Torv is a brilliant actress and one of the few things that keeps the viewer mildly interested in an otherwise bland, tedious 85 minutes.However, a good lead can't save the show from the massive hole its dug itself into so early. Among other things, the dialogue is terrible, the characters are one-sided, one-dimensional mockups, the situations are laughably preposterous and the pace is so unbearably slow and boring that its better than a glass of warm milk for putting you to sleep. Fans of awesome adrenaline-filled serialised shows like LOST and Heroes will be sorely disappointed. The best way to describe it is a bad X-Files re-enactment with characters with no chemistry and a pace so horridly slow it makes watching old men play chess seem exciting. Thankfully, we still have LOST for 2 more years, as I doubt I'll be watching this series in future.


                
Fringe is one of the many TV shows drooled on and on about by fans. To say it's a cult hit is a misnomer, it's more like a mainstream hit. If I could sum it up in one word, I would call it awkward. What's awkward is basically the acting. The story element is basically sub par. I didn't find it to be very creative. I started watching it because I wanted to know what all the buzz was about, and now that I've seen it, I realize that all the buzz is fluff. It's not as morose as the X-Files, but considering that the whole realm of the paranormal today is so much richer than it was in the '90's, this show could seriously benefit. The actors have little appeal to me as a viewer (Joshua Jackson is perhaps the most talented thing about it), but the writing is also as awkward as the actors. "Hated it!"


                
Let me get several things out of the way first. I was a massive fan of the X-Files...and I read and researched the whole Doors of Perception, LSD 52 and mescaline experimentation that occurred in the US under the auspices of our infamous Brit, Aldous Huxley...but this is not about the man who became guru to the hippie movement...it is about a program that takes elements of the Huxley experimentation into states of consciousness, the whole x-file approach to the bizarre and conspiratorial occurrences in our lives AND marries it with a fringe science FBI team where the only hindrance to their progress is the clearance that people seem to have or not have. In Fringe nobody laughs at the fringe team like they do at the x-file team, they are above everybody. Interesting but when did that happen? The last time I checked people still thought most of the ideas of fringe science belonged in a pile firmly labelled "ridiculous".The marriage that Fringe represents is utter nonsense. The badly drawn Agent Dunham seems to have the awareness of a gnat where FBI procedures are concerned. She is driven by a very unspectacular emotional crusade that really is not as well established or as believable as the x-files' Mulder who feels forever guilty about the abduction of his sister. We are constantly told she's a "great" agent but our own eyes then proceed to tell us otherwise. Similarly most of the characters and their development is poor...and that only indicates lazy writing to me but many will dismiss that because such a large hole was left in our lives when the X Files finished. Similarly I was watching in the hope that Fringe would fill that hole. Perhaps the stories would be more developed by the writers.The stories themselves are fairly poor on the whole but that again may be my demanding requirements for a level of realism that has no place in a populist show such as Fringe. Some find profundity in shows such as Fringe and Lost. Certainly Lost has a level of philosophical interest but Fringe fails because the stories are neither profound nor developed. Agents and Agencies in the real world have to qualify their work and prove that what they do is cost effective; they have to answer for any incompetence and explain any departure from normal procedures. This is also true of the scientific community...We are simply required to ignore the absence of all of these things...but let us suspend all of these requirements and ask is there nothing good about the show? I should say Dr Walter Bishop is an intriguing character. This is predominantly because of the the fantastic ability of John Noble to turn bad writing into an appealing scene on the screen. Yet it ultimately fails because we are supposed to suspend ALL reality and believe that not only has he experimented on every possible level of fringe science (an impossibility given time constraints) but that he is somehow the father of all the world's current ills (with a colleague) and after being locked away for almost two decades in an asylum he will help the FBI to resolve those ills. Am I being over demanding again? I said let's suspend our requirement for realism and then quickly criticised the series for lack of realism again.Unfortunately I think we have to expect a certain level of realism...we might be able to suspend some requirements but the Studios be damned if the are so lazy and expect us to suspend ALL requirements. I could say more but I wouldn't want to ruin it for those that might get some enjoyment from the series...suffice it to say I am not one of those people but there will be many. I think my main bone of contention is that I wanted more from the show...it promised much but left me disappointed and most of my disappointment is down to the poor writing and ultimately not the show or the actors on the show.In summary, some will enjoy the series but I did not...I found it had all the attraction of a present that is beautifully wrapped but left one disappointed when finally realising the gift itself does not live up to the promise!


                
i wanted to like this series after having the opportunity in gaining all first 3 season at once. However, after a couple of episodes, the rest was almost entirely on fast forward. why? prime time structured plots to attract most viewers, a bit for everyone, therefore politically correct and making the script for the characters (going along)as opposed to place characters fit the script. lots of sub-plots opened yet very few answers given (even those explained make no logical sense to an adult for most part) the sci-fi/mystery/horror is a joke, while some episodes to have good ideas, the logic behind misses any critical thinking input to the viewer. everything happens when it is convenient to do so and the "discoveries" are filled with technical terms that make no sense for anyone paying attention in the 12th grade biology/physics/chemistry classes urban soap Oprah ; all human emotions are standard, every feeling expressed is standard as per expectations -while some actors are good (Walter Bishop character)their acting on a very bad script makes me annoyed and i ended up always fast forwarding his "smart speeches" and "scientific" explanations.-some special effects are very good, yet when those happen it guarantees especially a bad dialogue script (i have no clue why, likely related to budget).overall, season 1 is almost entirely made of fill-up episodes, a few of which were good as "stand alone". season 2 develops an interesting story but due to extremely bad scripts, it goes nowhere other than in circles and some massive plot holes as a result.


                
"Fringe" started off great. Scratch that, it started off amazing! It had everything it needed to become the next great sci-fi mystery drama on TV. But it was too scared of itself. The show hinted at greatness - we had that superb storyline about two universes at war. Two ENTIRE universes fighting for dominance! Imagine what this could have been! Instead we got cheesy, boring, cliché drama. The authors tried so hard to pull our heart strings, but it all failed apart miserably, because the viewers didn't really care. We didn't care, because the crew failed to give us properly developed three-dimensional characters to care for. Let this be a lesson for all: you can't just say for example "she's my wife" and expect us to magically give a damn about some female character. It doesn't work that way! I can already hear people screaming "but it's not about the drama, it's about the sci-fi." To this I agree completely and I ask you - where is the good sci-fi? "Fringe" has in its mythology amazing things that could have been great - the people writing the sci-fi really did have a vision. And what happened at the end? Some bullsh*t anti-utopia, which doesn't even make sense! Thanks, but no thanks. It's such a shame to see shows with great potential go down the drain.


                
I made it as far as episode 4, then the predictable and rigid format became too much for me. Each and every time the genius (that much of a genius that the US government have left him languishing in a mental home for 17 years) scientist just happened to have worked on whatever concept or object which is the feature of the particular episode. Within minutes our hero will need a special piece of equipment to help with his proposed solution of the problem. Repeat this format each and every episode and you have the basic premise.This format is present in the first four episodes...I couldn't be bothered to look any further. As a sci-fi fanatic it is rare for me to pass such a negative judgement so quickly but the storyline is so patronising I found it difficult to invest any more time in to the series. I could also tear the science to pieces, but it is sci-fi so I suppose even the most incredulous of concepts are allowed, even at the idiotic end of the spectrum.I wanted to like it, unfortunately that is nearly as unlikely as the storyline.


                
I couldn't agree more to this one comment about the girl who can't act. She's emotionless, you can't tell whether she's excited or scared or normal lol.. The only thing that attracts me to the show is the performances of Joshua Jackson and John Noble. They keep the show alive I guess. Somebody here also said it's going to be like Lost, 4 seasons of unsolved issues and mysteries. Every episode, about 30mins past the show, out of nowhere, somebody come up with a solution or idea what may be the problem. But in the first 30mins, they have no idea, no hints at all. It feels like it's all thrown and then one day (when we all forgot about what happened in episode #3 for instance) they're going to rescue the facts that happened (or not).Anyways, I've been watching more of Ugly Betty rather than Fringe lately.


                
