Mahabharat would always be remembered for its story, dialogue, screenplay and performances. The actors who played the characters in Mahabharat would always be remembered by the character name. It has been over 20years since the serial ended but people still remember it very fondly.The best part of the serial was its focus on the main story. Mahabharat is such a huge epic that anyone could have got lost in the innumberable stories. Thanks to the concept of Samay (Time) all the minor details were briefly mentioned and the serial moved forward.The serial should also been seen for the interplays between the great characters and their interpretation of Dharma (Righteousness). Statecraft was one thing that is worth learning from the serial. Easily it could have got sucked into the maize of godliness but even Lord Krishna is not shown as The God but a divine human being. I have seen back to back reruns of the serial and every time it seems that it has something new to offer.


                
I have seen many series in my small life, some Indian but mostly foreign. And I must say none of them can compare to BR Chopra's Mahabharata.I have grown up watching this series as a kid but the memory faded in time. Since then I have read many versions of this epic and been mesmerized by the complexity of each character. And I thought can someone do justice to each of the character.And I was surprised when year's later I laid my eyes on this gem. The Mahabharata story is epic in itself. But BR Chopra has done justice to every character. Especially, Krishna, Bhishma and Duryodhana seems just like I imagined.We have 100 episodes of 40 minutes long. But the series doesn't appear to be dragged out at any point compared to other Indian imitations of Ramayana and Mahabharata. The story from the books remains intact without getting extra spices added or omission of any important detail.Lastly, I was surprised to see epic final battle without use of special effects. I imagine Indian film industry was not well equipped at that time and to create this masterpiece in that era was astonishing work. Hats off to all the cast and crew.I always thought that Mahabharata deserves very good direction. It will exceed LOTR and GoT movies if done properly. And thanks to BR Chopra, now I don't have to wait for anything. Its already done. 25 years ago. :)


                
While the production values are nowhere near western standards, BR Chopra's 'Mahabharat', by some estimates the most popular television serial in India, has a lot of positives going for it. The acting is generally decent, despite the presence of notorious hams like Mukesh Khanna. It's a good primer for anyone interested in Indian culture and Hinduism. In particular, the episodes dealing with the Holy Gita are excellent for beginners to Hindu philosophy. The rest of the series is high-minded soap opera involving rival kings and queens, numerous double crosses and endless battle scenes.Overall 7/10


                
