I'm just an 18 year old dude in high school that was assigned this movie in a class at my school. When I first saw the genres of this movie I was not looking forward to it at all. It was the first silent movie I was seeing and also the oldest. It had originally seemed like everything I didn't look for in a "good" movie. At the conclusion of this movie I knew that my original thought process was entirely wrong. This movie has certainly changed my view on both silent and older films, especially on a comedic standpoint. There was so much about it that was appealing to the viewer. I recommend this movie to all looking to expand their film genres of interest.


                
First of all, I fall into the Buster Keaton camp when it comes to silent comedy.  I'll take Keaton's stone face over Chaplin's sentimentality anyday. But this still is a very good film that anyone interested in film history ought to see. The boot eating scene and the potato dance are classic scenes.


                
One of the quissential silent movies ever made, 'The Gold Rush' is by far Chaplin's best work, has a lot of signature pieces in it, and shows great characterization of the tramp character (eg, putting him in such a strange locale, the Alaskan Gold Rush). The story is so simple that anyone can follow it and enjoy it, from 5-500, and it's ideas have been copied numerous times. I've seen this maybe 5 times now, and, although I've grown to like other silent comedians better, it was a pleasure to see this again. My only other comment, and this is not a complaint but rather an awkward aside. The version I saw quite recently was the 1942 version which is the feature version on the new DVD edition of the film. In this version, instead of inter titles, there's audio commentary. This was all done by Chaplin. While it's fun to listen to (Chaplin seems to be having a ball doing this). I really wonder why this needed to be done, and not just let the original stand on it's own merits. I guess silents were so out of vogue that when it was being re-released Chaplin did this to try to broaden the audience? That would be my guess.


                
The reason why I watched this movie was because I was in class and I had too so I can get a grade and it was a goof movie. The filmmaker was telling us how comedy was back in and it was silent but funny because we would still understand it. I liked when he was dancing with this girl and he just gave this other dude a look like yeah I know I got that type of look. I also liked when he pulled that dog out from under the table like that makes no sense but its funny. There really wasn't anything that I didn't like about the movie. So I recommend that people should watch this film because its good comedy.
Copyright 16 August 1925 by Charles Chaplin Productions. Released through United Artists. New York opening at the Mark Strand: 16 August 1925. Sound version, eliminating most of the silent titles and substituting a narrative written and spoken by Charles Chaplin, copyright 6 May 1942 by Charles Chaplin. New York opening at the Globe: 18 April 1942. U.S. release: 17 April 1942. Australian release: 3 December 1942. 6,709 feet. 74 minutes. This version, slightly cut to 6,461 feet was re-issued in Australia in 1956. The same version at 6,480 feet, opened in England at the London Pavilion around September 1956 and was subsequently shown widely throughout the U.K. SYNOPSIS: Charlie, a lone prospector, is stormbound in a Klondyke hut with Big Jim, a successful miner, and Black Larson, a desperado.NOTES: The silent version ran 8,498 feet which, projected at sound speed, ran 93 minutes. Chaplin claims that he saved no less than 25 minutes, solely by eliminating the original inter-titles. As the film then ran only 68 minutes, Chaplin added 400 feet of previously discarded footage which he had been wise enough to keep in storage all these years.
 
Chaplin's first film as actor-director for United Artists (of which he was one of the four founding partners). The most commercially successful of all Chaplin's silent films, coming in third at the U.S./Canadian box-office for 1925, with a domestic rentals gross of $2½ million. Location scenes filmed in the High Sierras. COMMENT: Not nearly as funny as its admirers would have us believe, The Gold Rush is too macabre, too grisly in its humor for my taste. True, Chaplin does wonders with seemingly depressing material. Indeed the whole movie depends for its effect on finding something to laugh at in the most horrifying situations. But I still find it hard to chuckle at the sight of a man so desperately hungry he is reduced to cooking his boot. Only a genius like Chaplin would think of turning this predicament into a classic comedy turn.
I'm not a very big fan of silent films, but Gold Rush was funny enough to hold my attention for the whole film. Charlie Chaplin revises his famous role of the little tramp, this time he's out to make it big in the Alaskan gold rush. Chaplin is just exquisite as always, he's so good at acting and being funny using just his movements and mannerisms. He works especially well alongside Mack Swain who plays another prospector. The scenes where Swain sees Chaplin as a giant chicken so he chases him in circles around the cabin are hysterical. This is where the film shines and is the best utilization i have seen of a silent film.


                
Improperly prepared for Klondike's harsh weather conditions, a lone gold prospector has to share a cabin with another prospector, whose hunger often drives him insane, in this Charles Chaplin silent comedy. Proclaimed by Chaplin as the film by which he most wanted to be remembered, 'The Gold Rush' has gone onto much acclaim, but those expecting the charm of 'City Lights' and imaginative sets and situations of 'Modern Times' may be disappointed. To be fair, 'The Gold Rush' starts off quite well with lots of humorous situations at the outskirts cabin, including imagined chickens, persons blown in and out of doorways and a hilarious sequence in which Chaplin keeps trying to dodge a gun barrel during a fight, only to find the gun pointed in his face wherever he goes. Around a third of the way in though, Chaplin leaves the cabin and what follows is far less innovative as he becomes the subject of tricks and falls in love upon returning to town. There are some funny town sequences for sure (dancing with a dog leash) and there is a great bit involving a tilting cabin near the end, but the final two thirds of the film never recapture the magic of the first third. With so many jokes and ideas that have since been imitated (bread roll forks), this is an undeniably iconic comedy, but those keen on seeing Chaplin at his finest may wish to look elsewhere.


                
One of the best films by Charles Chaplin and of the silent movie era about a man in the late 19th century who goes to Alaska in the gold rush. The story is, as always on Chaplin's part, very beautiful and touching, conveying a positive message and strong moral values. This movie contains some of the most iconic scenes of silent movies. The only snag I have with this movie is its sudden end about Chaplin's love interest for Georgia, and Georgia has not convinced me. The impression she gave me was that she did not love him but rather felt sorry for him, which at least is already a step in becoming more human, and when finding that he became millionaire she seemed only more relieved (financially) than properly happy - unless both money and happiness are the same to her. And this is the only reason why I cannot score this movie more than 7/10.
The Gold Rush is a film that shows Charlie at both his comedic and heart string pulling best, proving that hunkering down in an isolated cabin with a murderer while a snow storm rages outside is in fact a great situation for comedy. Back in town he falls for a woman named Georgia and pulls all the romantic strings - dancing with her whilst using the lead of a dog as a belt to hold up his trousers, entertaining her at the dining table using forks and bread as dancing feet (in his dreams), and after receiving a love letter, venturing back out into the wilderness to claim a mountain of gold for the two of them. However little did he know that the letter was intended for another man, and the dance was only an escape from one. The poor little tramp who can hardly catch a break and only had one shoe to wear after his other was eaten in a severe state of hunger, was being played the whole time.The story relies on quite a few coincidences and loose plot threads, and as you can imagine, leans very strongly on the edges of unbelievability. This is all easily forgivable for the first two acts, as the quality of gags is so entertaining that looking for continuity seems beside the point. Unfortunately however the third act, which sees the cabin Charlie and his mate are sleeping in blown precariously close to the cliffs edge, and the forgotten landmark of gold, really does push too far against those edges, and metaphorically shall I say, falls over the cliff. I guess it was done for the sake of metaphor - a visual of his life literally being on the brink of disaster - but the quality of gags here are not nearly as good as those that came beforehand, and Charlie was always better at gags than metaphor anyway. The chance (did I mention the story relies on coincidences?) encounter between Georgia and Charlie on the boat is even more awkward. With he now a millionaire, the two appear set to live happily ever after, but is it really happy if she is so undeserving?It is well worth watching however, as the first two acts contain some great material.
Chaplin was a great director in his time but many of his films have aged badly, simply because his sentimentality has completely gone out of fashion which puts a modern audience in a rather uneasy relationship to the Tramp character.  This problem also applies to this film which for a long time was regarded as one of the very best ever made.   It probably is no more.Despite of this, The Gold Rush is still very much enjoyable for its most famous moments, like Chaplin devouring a shoe (which was made out of licorice, I believe) or the potato-fork-dance.


                
One of the few missteps in the superb region 2 "The Chaplin Collection" DVD releases comes with The Gold Rush. Pedants can get vexed at the fact that the outer packaging displays the title without the "The", but the real puzzlement comes inside. On disc one ("The Film") we're given what is listed as the "definitive" version... that version being the almost unlistenable and truncated version with Chaplin's narration.Bizarrely the original silent itself is pushed onto the second disc as a "special feature", along with some off kilter extras. While the documentaries titled "Chaplin Today" are usually at worst interesting and at best compelling, this one seems wide of the mark. Here we get speakers imploring the seamlessness of that terrible toy doll stand in at the climax, or urging us that Chaplin is a genius for dressing up as a giant chicken. Anyone else would have just used a normal sized chicken, they urge us. Errrrrrr.... isn't it just that Chaplin wouldn't have been able to get inside the suit of, or manipulate, a lifelike chicken? I'm all for praising Chaplin's undoubted genius, but here it seems to be praising things that simply aren't there.Yes, The Gold Rush is a very good film... for an extended short. But the vaunted artistry that gave us the political ramifications of Modern Times or the poignancy of City Lights and The Kid just isn't there. The dance of the rolls is extraordinary, the vague allusions to the Depression are to be applauded... but I'm just not seeing this as Chaplin's finest hour. In fact, from The Kid to The Great Dictator I'd see this as his weakest feature, save for A Woman In Paris.Though of course a term like "weakest" doesn't really apply when it comes to a Chaplin film in his peak years. The Gold Rush is still a spectacular film... it's just that it's a fun movie that doesn't really tap into his greater sense of artistry.
I am not sure if it is because there is a problem with the recovery of this film, but I found the cuts in the middle of the film confusing. The linearity of the narrative comes into question as we see Chaplin in the town, then up in the mountains, and back without an apparent transition from the two locations. Chaplin's films unlike Keaton's focus a lot more on his persona and characters around him. While Keaton engages with objects during gags, Chaplin engages with people, and both are equally engaging. Chaplin's tramp persona is always seen as the outcast, and with great composition shots, gains the sympathies of the audience. Examples of this is apparent in the mountain scene when he walks alongside the mountain and his lone figure is contrasted by this enormous mountain. There is also another great shot taken in the dance club where he first meets Georgia, here the camera is located behind Chaplin as he stands in the shadows looking at the dance floor. Both great shots that emphasize his loneliness and separateness from society. While I do enjoy this film, I must confess that Keaton's had me more engaged. Chaplin's gags are either subtle or extravagant and mostly emits from his tramp persona. The most remarkable 'gag' in this film is with the scene in the house, and to be honest, it got a bit repetitive after awhile. It was still enjoyable though. Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
Charlie Chaplin is a film star who transcends time and not just for those who enjoy silent movies. Chaplin's movies can be enjoyed today as much as they were back when and his physical and in particular his facial expressions are top notch and a must even today for any true comedic actor. With The Gold Rush you get Chaplin at his best comedic wise, and although maybe I don't think right now I think this movie is incredible, I can still see that Charlie Chaplin is one of the best actors of all time. We see our story set in the rugged gold rush times in Alaska and Canada known as the Klondike Gold Rush, Chaplin is a lone prospector and he has come to seek his fortune like many others, but some people will help him whilst others will not.The film is as much at times a drama as it is a comedy mixing gags with truly emotional scenes, Chaplin yet again proves himself not only a great actor, but also a director at that level too. Chaplin's little tramp persona (who kind of reminds me of a penguin) arrives to a stormy place and meets Big Jim McKay who is also a lonely prospector and Black Larsen a wanted criminal. I don't want to go into the plot too much as to not ruin it for those who have yet to see this but over time Chaplin's character comes to love, befriend and well ultimately get into some sticky situations. The story I felt was good fun and although maybe not amazing for me personally, it is still very well played out.Chaplin also writes this movie further proving his absolute brilliance as he basically does everything for this movie. His skill is most plain to see in scenes where his character is being flung around or blown away by the fierce storms, the direction is not only superb but the laughs that can be had are a plenty yet again showing Chaplin's awesome humorous acting. The stunts are really well done as well by all involved, in fact Chaplin seems to make a seemingly normal stunt funny, a certain scene in a cabin off a cliff edge is probably the pick of the scenes for me. This movie also shows us some of Chaplin's most famous moments with the shoes, the dancing rolls and well of course his not unique to this movie but Chaplin's walking stick and hat. I think if you feel before watching this that you won't enjoy silent movies then think again, I myself at the time of this review have not ventured into silent's as much as I would like to have but still know from this that many are enjoyable. Is this Chaplin's greatest work? Well it could be but I do feel his movies in the 1930's are what he will be best remembered for and his highest rated although Chaplin of course wanted to be remembered for this one the most and so he should, it is him at the top of his game, and that's even before he did a lot of his more famous one's. Yes this film is good in my opinion, a very likable little adventure and although one I would not say is great, it is still very much worth watching and again afterwards. It may have aged slightly through time but in any case for a movie like this to be better than most it shows that Chaplin not only understood film making but he actually put it into action, made films people loved and cried at whether that be tears of laughter or emotion and in the end made people happy with his cheeky smile and little moustache.


                
I decided to go ahead and watch another Charlie Chaplin film since I am familiar with his work anyway, and I thought he was charming and hilarious. While I did enjoy The Circus, I wasn't as thrilled with this one as I was with his other works.While the humor in this is just as good and entertaining, I found it lacking. In my opinion, I found it a tad bit dull compared to precious movies of his. Maybe I'm being too comparative, but I didn't find this movie as thrilling as some of his other concepts. I don't know, I think the plot kept bouncing around to characters that were in the first part and I didn't understand why some characters needed to come into the plot again when Charlie was dealing with Georgia in the dance hall. It's not a bad film; far from it, in fact. For my personal tastes, though, I wished it was something more gripping. I felt like he could have done a lot with the idea of being trapped in the cold north with arctic animals and the like, instead of it drifting back to Georgia. I think it would have made a funnier movie if it kept to the main point in the beginning and went with it. I felt a little disorganized watching it because I didn't know what to focus on in the main storyline.I give this film 7 out of 10 mostly because of how it was executed, so it wasn't as high a rating as before. But, overall, it's a cute movie but not his best.~ Vicky


                
Gold Rush is a breed between a silent movie and a talkie. Characters are not talking but there is a narrator talking instead of there being title cards.There was a time, long ago, when slapstick was still smart. This Charlie Chaplin movie is an example of that era. Gold Rush is actually funny despite the comedy being based on physical slapstick. There are no penis jokes or poop jokes needed to make this movie funny (unlike the modern "comedies"). Although most of the comedy comes from Charlie Chaplin's physical hijinks, the commentary of the narrator can be quite witty as well. You will probably not be laughing loudly, but Gold Rush is worth plenty of smiles.The story is about Charlie Chaplin's character in Alaska during the gold rush there. Some of the content in which the film finds its comedy is actually surprisingly macabre. Although the movie is entertaining, it did get a little boring in the middle. The performances are not so captivating and the humour is not so great as to keep you entertained the whole time. Also, the ending seems to be an afterthought. It feels rushed, like the story skips about 10 minutes worth of story that should have explained what happened to a couple of the characters.The movie looks interesting. There are some special effects done using miniatures and a technique whereby the characters from one film are pasted over the background of another film. The shots of mock up models are interchanged with the close up shots of the real thing, like for example there is a live bear involved but during certain scenes it becomes a dude in a costume. The effects look very fake, but nonetheless interesting. In 1925 these were probably really advanced special effects.Gold Rush does not feel particularly special. It just an overall entertaining and well done semi-silent film.


                
The Gold Rush is known as the movie that Charlie Chaplin said he will love to be known for; Gold Rush is funny and exciting to watch. The script and the screenplay are just as creative as they come, which was all know they come Charlie Chaplin style, making you laugh all the way. My favorite scene in this movie is where the house was hanging on a cliff, with the Lone Prospector and Big Jim trapped inside. The movie boasts of such amazing screenplay, especially that specific scene.Chaplin's movies have received numerous recognitions for their work and appeal, this movie is no exception it got an Oscar nomination for Best Sound Recording, although it is a silent film. In 1942, Chaplin re-released the movie and in this new version, he added a musical score and a narration which he recorded himself, the original version was a silent film done in 1925.The movie's plot is about a character named The Lone Prospector (Charlie Chaplin) whose desire to venture into Alaska to look for gold led him down a path of adventure where he discovered gold and fell in love. In his adventure he met Big Jim McKay and Black Larsen and during a storm all three were trapped in a cabin.While they were tapped in the cabin, they ran out of food and Larsen went out to go search for some, while Big Jim almost ate the Lone Prospector (Charlie Chaplin), as Larsen wasn't back in time and he Big Jim was hungry. The movie then carried on, at the end of the storm, Big Jim unfortunately loses his memory as he battled with Larsen at one point while the Lone Prospector went into town and fell in love with a girl he met at a saloon named Georgia.Although Gold Rush is fun and a nice movie to see, but it is not as great as City Lights which was done six years after. Gold Rush was a box office success gaining over 4 million dollars. The movie made over four times its production cost and it is featured in the AFI's top 100 movies of 100 years (10th Anniversary Edition), there it is rated 58 and it is rated the 25th funniest movies in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs.Charlie Chaplin has been a wonderful actor, director, writer and producer in the many movies that he has done; this is just as much a classic as the others. Gold Rush is fun to watch and you will find yourself laughing your way through.www.lagsreviews.com


                
It's been said that this is the film Charles Chaplin wanted to be best remembered by. If so, I think the great director and comedian might have been selling himself short. As one of his earliest feature films, I think "The Gold Rush" set a respectable standard on which to build a reputation, however I enjoyed his later films a lot more. For me, 1931's "City Lights' is the gauge to measure other Chaplin pictures by, if not the entire genre of silent film. Similarly, I found 1936's "Modern Times" and 1940's "The Great Dictator" to be more provocative and insightful, which tells me that as Chaplin grew as a film maker, he found more compelling themes to portray and did it with informed maturity and insight.Which is not to say the "The Gold Rush" is a poor film, quite the opposite. Chaplin takes his trademark character, the Little Tramp, and turns him, for purposes of the story into The Lone Prospector, or alternately, The Little Fellow. There are any number of memorable elements on display here - Chaplin's transformation into a giant chicken, the boot eating scene, the cabin at the edge of the cliff. Perhaps the best remembered signature piece from the picture involves the 'dance of the rolls', a uniquely creative segment that's often used in pictorials of Chaplin's career. Seeing the sequence in context, I was surprised to learn that the scene involved The Little Fellow entertaining dance hall girl Georgia (Georgia Hale) and her girlfriends from the Monte Carlo Dance Hall. Any other time I've watched that scene, it appeared that Chaplin was simply putting on a show for the viewer alone.Delving into Chaplin's history, even on a surface level can be an interesting exercise. His first choice for the part of Georgia was his own fiancée, Lita Grey, who quite unfortunately became pregnant and couldn't make the picture in her condition. In a brief clip of Grey offered in the special features section of "The Gold Rush" DVD, she didn't quite seem to have the looks or charisma of Georgia Hale, who's signature curlicue on the center of her forehead made her all the more endearing. This was one of those unintended consequences of real life that might have resulted in a better movie than originally conceived.By all means, a viewing of "The Gold Rush' is a must to get a full flavor of Chaplin's artistic achievement, and I would recommend it without reservation. However my earlier comments regarding his later work still stand, and ought to be viewed as well to gain a fuller appreciation for his entire body of work.
This is the story of gold prospectors in Alaska, told as a dramatic comedy. There are some memorable scenes with the Tramp eating a shoe, turning into a chicken, dancing the Oceana Roll...Chaplin is great, as always, but this is surely not his best film. It does not compare to "Great Dictator" and especially not "City Lights". The humor was much more subtle, with the emphasis being more on the viewer feeling sorry for the Tramp. I did laugh when Chaplin pretended to be frozen stiff just to get breakfast, though. And I have to give them credit for a a very respectable bear.If you're like me, you'll find that Georgia (Georgia Hale) has a very familiar face, but perhaps not a very well-known name. And, strangely, she appears in nothing else I know.


                
Charlie Chaplains movies are some of the greatest works in movie history. He created a world where all you needed to tell a story was great visual humor and great characters. He showed how one many can beat the odds, save the day and get the girl. "The Gold Rush" is a perfect example of his ability to do so.By todays standards, the quality of "The Gold Rush" is terrible. a movie could be shot in an infinitely better resolution and not to mention in color for less than one hundred dollars. or by the phones most of us have in our pockets. One thing that Chaplin had that you can't buy at Radio Shack, is his vastly superior ability to make a film.The most significant part of this film is Chaplains ability to use his physical comedy and visual humor to tell an amazing story. anyone who loves movies should put this right on their must watch list.


                
This was my first Chaplin movie that I have watched and was very impressed. I felt he did live up to his name with his silly, simple humor. I was also impressed with how well the movie was put together for the time period it was in. There were some parts where you do realize that it was staged. For instance, showing when Chaplin was in the cabin on the mountain, the outside scenery was not real. Although, it was not, as the audience you still get sucked into the storyline and go with it. This movie made me appreciate movies from the silent era a little more. Instead of the actors speaking the story, music tells the story; you could fill in the blanks on your own and get the feeling of what is going on because of what kind of music is played during different scenes. I also really enjoyed how silly the humor was in the movie, it was not too over the top or too ridiculous. I thought it was funny when Chaplin is stuck in the cabin with another man and they do not have any food and are extremely desperate for food. The other man he is with imagines Chaplin as a chicken. I was very impressed with the way Chaplin faded into a chicken and back to himself and that it was done very well for the times in film making.
Gold Rush was my first silent film. i never thought i would have enjoyed having to read to know what was going on in a movie. The Gold Rush was a box office hit currently still being the 5th highest grossing silent film in cinema history. Certain points in the plot of the film confused me but the general idea was visible. The movie is about a man on a pursuit for wealth. He ends up discovering more than he was searching for after making a few friends along the way. Charlie Chaplin plays a very comical character that makes the movie easy to/fun to watch. the movie covers all of the human emotions and feelings. The intertwining paths of the characters sets the change of the mood often and sporatic. He is the guy who started a style that many followed over the years like the three stooges to current slap stick comedies.


                
