This silent classic has many strong points - it has a lot of humor, interesting characters, a good story and good settings.  It's the kind of film that shows how much a master film-maker can communicate in a silent movie.  It overdoes the sentimentality on occasion, but other than that it's a fine film.Chaplin himself plays the 'Lone Prospector', and he is joined by several other interesting characters in a frozen north setting that sets up some good adventures and drama.  There are some memorable scenes in the prospectors' rickety cabins, plus some other good material.The version of this that is the easiest to find is the one that Chaplin re-edited in the 1940's, adding his own narration and deleting the title cards, which gives it a slightly different feel.  (These revisions probably make it a bit easier to follow for those who aren't used to silent films.) You can tell from Chaplin's narration how fond he must have been of "The Gold Rush", and he had a lot of good reasons to be pleased with it.  There are a couple of his later films that might be even better and more timeless, but this one contains everything that defined Chaplin and his art.


                
Charlie Chaplin's silent film (also re-released with a narration in the early 1940s) focuses, as usual, on the Little Tramp, and in this case, his attraction to a chorus girl (Georgia Hale). This is the one where he eats a boot, along with its laces, and manages to make it appear a sumptuous meal; as well as creating a dance with bread rolls.The role of the girl was originally intended for the second Mrs Chaplin, Lita Grey, but her pregnancy ruled her out. Georgia Hale is excellent in her disdain of the unwanted Tramp attentions. Mack Swain appears as Big Jim, who shares a cabin with the Tramp, at one point getting so hungry he imagines his pal as a chicken ready to eat! This film has the spirit of the pioneers and gold-runners, as well as the inimitable spirit of the little hero. As a silent it is one of the best comedies of the time, as a sound film, it is fairly good.


                
Spoiler Alert:"The Gold Rush" is perhaps one of the best silent movies I have ever seen.Although it takes a bit to get used to silent movie language you'll be rewarded with a marvelous,funny and poignant movie.Some of the scenes are hilarious and some really touches your heartstrings. Chaplin as performer gives one of his best performances in this movie. There are plenty of great scenes:Chaplin and Mack Swain in the cabin,crazy with hunger and cabin fever,the touching New Year's Eve party and finally the hilarious finale with the cabin out on the edge of a cliff.The later version which was released with added narration and music wasn't as good as the original,but easier for modern audiences to watch.


                
I never actually sat down to watch a silent movie from start to finish until earlier this year. Right now, I still haven't seen too many, but recently, for the first full-length silent comedy to see, I chose "The Gold Rush", a film written, directed by, and starring Charlie Chaplin, a highly renowned filmmaker of his time, as I was aware of this movie's wide appeal, as well as the wide appeal of much of Chaplin's other work. I wasn't as impressed with it as much as many others have been, but all in all, it was a good experience.Set in the year 1898, during the gold rush of the time (hence the title of the film), Chaplin stars as a silly prospector, one of the many who have bravely come up to face the harsh weather conditions of Alaska, in search for gold! After struggling through a blizzard, he comes across a cabin. From there, much lies ahead for him. He experiences being marooned in the cabin with a fellow prospector named Big Jim McKay, both of them without food, and also falls in love with a woman he meets in Alaska named Georgia, and attempts to win her heart!"The Gold Rush" definitely has some very funny and memorable gags. The two isolated prospectors eating a boiled boot, due to the fact they have no real food to eat, is definitely one of them. Gagwise, there are many more highlights in the film. The humour is very visual, with a lot of slapstick, which I usually like, and here is no exception. For the most part during the film, if I wasn't laughing, I think I was usually smiling. This 1925 Chaplin film also has some serious scenes, which works fairly well, and social commentary. I guess there's not much I'm saying, if anything, that hasn't already been said about "The Gold Rush". Yes, it was made over eighty years ago, but has aged well.


                
Even if you've never seen "The Gold Rush" in it's entirety, everyone has seen at least some famous parts.  These include the house teetering on the edge of the mountain, with Chaplin rocking back and forth, the tramp eating his shoe, because he's so hungry, and of course, the dancing rolls. Naturally, these are some of the funniest parts.  But there are also some really brilliant scenes in "The Gold Rush".  I recommend this to any Charlie Chaplin fan, or anyone who just wants to see a romantic comedy that will leave you with a smile on your face.Rating: 9 out of 10


                
As hundreds of prospectors rush to the Alaskan permafrost in search of buried fortune, Charlie Chaplin tags along to misguidedly seek their scraps. Entirely unprepared for the harsh climate, he soon finds himself trapped in a small cabin during a snowstorm, along with an on-the-lam criminal and an increasingly insane fellow gold-seeker. That setup is good for a stretch of claustrophobic mayhem, but it's not until the storm ends and the trio split up that things start getting really good.The pace can feel slow at times, pausing to squeeze as much anticipation from each scene as possible, but that all seems worthwhile when everything comes together in the final act. At worst, it's a little drawn-out. At best, a brilliant display of creative scene-setting and cinematic trickery. Chaplin is able to do so much with such limited means, it doesn't even matter that we can see through a few of his visual illusions. In a way, that makes it even more endearing, like a magician who lifts the curtain mid-trick for a sly wink. The Gold Rush is loaded with such ideas; crazy, larger-than-life concepts that work through hustle and sheer power of will. It also bubbles over with little personal moments from the star, whose aloof charisma still shines like a beacon through so many years.


                
Undoubtedly, one of the best films by Charles Chaplin. With good jokes, good story and great photography. Highly recommend.


                
The movie is split into two parts:
Part 1- the movie shows the hard time the three main characters (prospector + Big Jim + Black Larson) were in when seeking the gold
Part 2- when the three characters are separated, The Lone Prospector finds the club then he finds beautiful Georgia and likes her but she doesn't like as much he does, he tries to impress her.The ending of the movie was great + the scene where the wood house hangs on a cliff is done in a very great way.
Charlie Chaplin is a film legend known for his silent pictures, so it was interesting to watch the 1942 reissued version of his 1925 film "Gold Rush" with narration.Chaplin's lovable, goofy character, "The Tramp", as he refers to him, is a lonely prospector looking for gold during the California Gold Rush. He is not alone in a quest to find fortune and fame as he is trapped in a cabin with two other prospectors - Mack Swain as "Big Jim" and Tom Murray as "Black Larsen". Since it is a Chaplin film, comedic antics ensue as these characters wait out a brutal winter storm, such as "The Tramp" and "Big Jim" eating a shoe. A town has been established nearby where "The Tramp" meets and falls for "Georgia" (Georgia Hale), a dance hall worker who has a brute of a suitor named "Hank" (Henry Bergman). This creates a shift in tone and character goals as "The Tramp" then tries to become rich in order to win the affections of "Georgia". More comedic antics, such as the cabin tilting on the edge of a cliff, occur before "The Tramp" and "Big Jim" are successful in striking gold. The film ends with rich and famous "The Tramp" coincidentally crossing paths with "Georgia" on a ship with her accepting him for who he is and not his wealth.This film is an example of cinematic realism because it is authentic in the story matter and style. The plot takes place during the California Gold Rush to characters who could be real. Nothing is overly dramatized in the sense that it could not have actually happened in real life. However, one possible exception would be "The Tramp" and "Big Jim" trying to escape the tilting cabin as it teeters on the edge of a cliff hanging by a rope.The films of the 1920s seem to be thought of as rudimentary, in terms of lacking cinematic creativity with the kinetic motion being concrete and literal. However, this film incorporates techniques used in more modern era films, as well. For instance, previous films were shot specifically with characters and action framed by long and medium shots at eye-level. In contrast, films like this one also included close-ups and point-of-view shots to better see and understand the characters' expressions and emotions. This is especially evident with the more complex emotions - Georgia feeling guilty for not showing up to the party thrown by "The Tramp"or the weary, exhausted faces of the starving "Tramp" and "Big Jim". Close-up shots are also useful for any sort of action like when "Georgia" lifts up "The Tramps" pillow to find the tattered picture of her and the flower she gave when the night they danced. The viewer would not get the same feelings of secret, unrequited love if the shot was done farther away.The (dubbed) narration both added and took away from the film, depending on the circumstances of the scene. One example of addition was when a reporter asked "The Tramp" was asked about his relationship with "Georgia", to which the response was a whispered "Buzz, buzz, buzz" - unexpected and comical. In contrast, one example of the narration taking away was describing obvious character expressions and actions. For instance, the narration of a character saying "Get over there" and pointing in that direction with a gun is essentially redundant and pointless because the viewer can tell that that's what the character wants based on the visual context.Chaplin's updated version of "Gold Rush" is the epitome of classic cinema. It has the right amount of character development, meaningful action, and comedic timing that is not forced. It is the perfect "rags to riches" and "underdog achieves his dreams and gets the girl" film that will always be relevant.Sources:Giannetti, Louis. Understanding Movies. Boston, Pearson, 2016. Accessed 28 September 2017."The Gold Rush (1925)". IMDb, 2017. http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0015864/? ref_=nv_sr_2.Accessed 28 September 2017.
It's a sweet movie with some really sweet moments, thanks to Charlie Chaplin's character and of course the way he portrays him. Chaplin always has been great putting effective emotions in a purely comical movie. You always feel and sympathize for his little tramp character.Interestingly enough Charles Chaplin himself in the '40's revived the movie with the addition of spoken dialog-, done by himself and sound. It's not always necessary, since the images themselves speak for their own but it's still interesting to experience because it makes clear what he himself initially always wanted us to see and hear.It's a real Charlie Chaplin movie, also not in the least because he directed, wrote, composed, produced and edited but I mean especially of course his acting. His movements are particularly great but so are his overall comical acting skills. Not hard to see why he's regarded by many as the great movie comedian/entertainer of all time.The story is a sweet one and it perfectly gives Chaplin the opportunity to show of his skills. Though admittedly I didn't like the first halve of the movie as much as the second. Somehow this always seems to be the case with silent comedies. The two parts also don't feel really jointed. The first part is most slapstick, while the second part is slapstick but with substance, with of course also the great and classic cabin ending.Great must-see from the silent-era, both the original- and narrated version.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
The Goldrush is a true classic! I haven't seen many silent films until recently, and I must say that I adore Charlie Champlin's work. I never thought I could laugh so hard at a silent film, but I surprisingly couldn't stop smiling and giggling. The Goldrush was entertaining from beginning to end. When all three men were stuck in the cabin together, I honestly thought one of them was going to die in order for the other two to survive off of the one. They eventually draw cards to see who draws the lowest card, and that person had to go out and hunt for food. The tramp got lucky, he drew a low card but fortunately for him the other guy drew the lowest. I thought it was crazy when the Tramp boiled the leather shoe, it just shows you how starving they really were! Both men started going crazy from not eating, especially when one imagined the other as chicken, the chicken suit Charlie wore was great. My favorite part of the movie was when they were both sleeping and the Tramp wakes up to find the cabin moving all around, but he thinks it's in his head. Then both men move from side to side balancing it out perfectly each time before they catch on that half of the cabin was hanging off the edge of the cliff! There were many moments in the movie that I found myself hysterically laughing! I'm glad I watched the Goldrush, it just shows you how clever and funny movies were back in the 1920s. It gives you a chance to connect with the past. Even though it was 90 years ago, there were many scenes that you could relate to and identify with.
"We must get food. One of us must brave that storm."The film that Chaplin wanted to be remembered for, The Gold Rush, is his most ambitious and adventurous one. Chaplin takes center stage once again and takes us to the snowy mountains of Alaska. Under extremely harsh conditions the tramp struggles to survive, but he always faces life with his innocent naivety and cheerfulness. The Gold Rush is a simple rags to riches story, but somehow the tramp doesn't let his social condition define who he is. He remains the same quirky character no matter the circumstances he faces. In the midst of all the hilarious moments, Chaplin always manages to send an uplifting message to his audience. He reminds us that no matter how difficult the circumstances we are going through are, if we continue to move forward something good is going to come out of it. The Gold Rush might not be his most critically acclaimed film, but it does have some of his most memorable scenes. Without ever having seen this movie I had already seen several clips like the scene where the tramp is preparing a roasted shoe or the scene in which his friend is starving so much that he imagines the tramp as a chicken and chases him. The scenes that take place in the cabin are all hilarious and have inspired many famous cartoon scenes as well. However his most famous and beloved scene involved the dancing rolls which was played over and over again in the theaters were it was played. Perhaps Chaplin is remembered for his work in Modern Times or City Lights, but the scenes in The Gold Rush have passed the test of time and captivated audiences around the world. The good thing about silent films is that they are universally accepted because actions don't need translations.The Gold Rush takes place in gorgeous Alaska during 1898 as thousands of prospectors faced the harsh conditions in order to find gold and become millionaires. The tramp, who is known in this film as the lone prospector (Charles Chaplin), also heads to Alaska on his own dreaming of becoming wealthy man. After a severe storm hits his area, the tramp locates a small cabin and finds refugee there. But the cabin isn't abandoned, a thief known as Black Larsen (Tom Murray) is hiding there. Before Black Larsen can kick him out of the cabin another large prospector arrives. Big Jim McKay (Mack Swain) uses his size to intimidate Black Larsen and convinces him to allow the three men to stay there until the storm passes. As the days pass the men begin to starve so they decide one of them must face the storm and bring back food. The unlucky fellow isn't the tramp this time as Black Larsen is the chosen one. After a few days the storm passes and the lone prospector decides to head to the nearest gold-rush community where he falls in love with a saloon girl known as Georgia (Georgia Hale) and tries to win her heart.The best moments of The Gold Rush involve the lone prospector's adventures in the cabin and his misunderstandings with the other large prospectors. The love story however was the weakest link as the girl here really doesn't do anything to deserve the tramp's love. She isn't really likable so I can see how critics at the time were unsatisfied by the ending of this film. The Gold Rush could've been his most critically acclaimed film if it had an ending like City Lights. I think that film gets more recognition because Chaplin learned his lesson and ended that film on a perfect note. There is no discussion however that most of the famous Chaplin scenes come from The Gold Rush. This was Chaplin's longest and most produced film at the time and he succeeds again in blending slapstick with pathos effortlessly. The Gold Rush is a fun adventure with several highlights, but I think a shorter running time for silent films works better. Chaplin still never ceases to lose his charm and his character of the tramp never gets old. I also love the score in all his films, they are just inspiring and uplifting. After watching his third feature film, I must agree that his films are timeless and universal.


                
Charles Spencer Chaplin AKA Charlie Chaplin was the most popular silent movie actor.this movie is strange,but still a timeless classic what even nowadays can't beat.the movie story Alaska 1898 a lot of people looking for a pure gold and it's not easy. without a doubt one of the greatest comedy what ever made on planet earth.funny.and of course characters are very interesting. carving up a boot scene is very famous maybe the most famous scene in silent movie history.some scenes are maybe not in nowadays realistic,but it's still very funny.my opinion the greatest silent movie is Napoleon(1927)and Metropolis(1927)and third is definitely Gold Rush i recommend it to watch it.


                
Today I have recovered a classic one, after seeing the documentary "Chaplin Today" on its film of the 1925, and knowing peculiar things the running like for example the end different from the 25 the original version of and the definitive version of the decade of the 40, also mounted by the teacher Chaplin and where it put its voice to the personage "The Lone Prospector", and also to know since it has influenced in its east work film to the film director Idrissa Ouedraogo of Burkina Faso.Before nothing to emphasize the facility to laugh itself, with the scene to cook its own boot, and when eats it with its companion of adventures, surely remembering the hungry that it was to pass in that another time of his life. To emphasize also fight of adventurer with few means (flat where it takes to writing in pencil the coordinates of a compass), an unconscious one of the high risks of its adventure (when it sees a congealed died poster of an expeditionary one, reacts with great surprise).A great film that says many things of the human nature, from the cruelty and deceit of at first platonic love, almost the culmination of a cannibal action, thanks to the loss of real conscience to do surely for a forced subconscious mind to fight to survive, but that is gained by the shouts of plea of the possible victim that makes wake up the mentally ill human conscience of the momentary one, and mainly the work in equipment and the fidelity of both partners, thanks to this commitment and fidelity that obtain therefore the objective fixed to the search of the mineral so valued.


                
Another classic Chaplin. As usual, and interestingly, although the story and plot are finely coherent, it could be said this film represents more a cluster of morals with each part conveying a particular sense and meaning, rather than how films classically supply one big singular morality at the end. Chaplin's films, though again certainly coherent and finely constructed, have that quality reminiscent of sketches; separate parts that work together as an ensemble; which only works in generating more entertainment for the viewer as he's given a wider palette of thought, visuals and humor. In this one Chaplin showcases his unique ability to make a scene out of nothing, create value out of very little going on, and if ever you'd find it unfunny it is at very least certainly very creative. I'd imagine everybody would laugh wholeheartedly at least once during this. Finally, as always with Chaplin, ultimately this is a tale of humanity, and one that highlights the endearing fact of the 'little guy', the oddball; so unlikely to succeed or fit in anywhere, who yet manages a whole lot more than any of that.


                
Another classic by the great Charlie Chaplin! Gold Rush includes everything from Chaplin's classic humor, danger, murder, love and a very happy ending that I didn't think was going to happen. Charlie stars again as the Tramp and finds himself in Alaska to prospect for gold and along the way he finds himself in a variety of situations and he meets a lot of characters along the way. Regardless of the situation, the Tramp always manages to stay true to himself and his ideals and Chaplin's characters always stand up for themselves and for the leading lady, in this film her name is Georgia. Despite the dangers that the Alaskan frontier poses, from bears to storms to murderers and falling cabins, Chaplin always manages to bring his unique laugh out loud humor to nearly every scene. At the end of the movie when Big Jim and the Tramp sail home as millionaires and the Tramp was asked to dress up in his prospecting clothes for a photo shoot I thought for sure the authorities were going to arrest him as a stowaway but happily he wasn't and he even reunited with Georgia. The last scene with the two of them kissing was so touching it made me think that maybe Chaplin had an affair with the actress in real life. I hope so because they looked great together. Also impressive is the scenery and the special effects. I loved the storms which seemed very real and the snow covered mountains which could be an image even today's sophisticated person would associate with Alaska. A well done and enjoyable film, I would recommend to everyone.
"But I'll dance the Oceana Roll!" In Chaplin's 1925 silent comedy classic 'The Gold Rush', the Lone Prospector (Charlie Chaplin) is faced with a whole slew of hardships and challenges, such as biting, blistering winds, near starvation and leaping out of a cabin right before it plummets off of a cliff! And all for the sake of seeking fame and fortune, respectively. To upset matters worse, his ill-gotten attire market him as the mockery for the buffoonery of his comrades and the ruthless rigors of the frigid trek northward. However, real prospectors of the late nineteenth century as part of the Klondike Gold rush faced somewhat similar predicaments. Some came from many walks of life, some as far as the United Kingdom, South Africa and Australia. Most were perfectly aware that the chances of finding significant amounts of gold were very slim and just went along for the adventure, despite what hardships they might face, even through if it meant trenching up the discouraging but enduring Chilkoot Pass in the hopes of gaining their own individual fortunes. Prospectors had to build rafts and boats that would take them the final five-hundred plus miles down the Yukon to Dawson City, near the gold fields. Also, they had to carry a year's supply of goods over the passes to be allowed to enter Canada. About a ton, more than half of it, was food. Regarding history, I believe that some of it matches what 'The Gold Rush' portrays in the film. During the picture in the beginning, many men were carrying goods on their backs or pulling them on sleds, just like during the real Klondike expedition. However, do the prospectors that endure the frigid winds and blinding snow in a vain search for valuable, shiny nuggets depict the accuracy of what occurred in real life back then? Let's take a look.In silent films of that particular era, the challenges of acting and portraying emotions were only emphasized by the faces of the actors and the music being played in the background. Since sound was not an option yet, the viewer could only discern what the actor or actress was trying to do or say through their face or body language, and lines were shown on the screen so that the viewer could read them and follow the plot throughout the film. In the movies of today, regarding modern culture, sound has much improved. With the latest sound equipment, viewers no longer have to rely on reading lines on the screen but can enjoy listening to them being spoken, and to be alert for the tone of voice that the actor or actress is using to define the emotions given. Also, actors and actresses can actually declare their emotions out loud to each other and to the viewer as well. The film did however manage to receive an Academy Award nomination for Best Sound Recording nonetheless. Besides the sound quality, this silent gem is also loaded with adventure, love, greed and with Chaplin, laughter, of course, this being a dramatic comedy. With the infamous scene of the dancing dinner rolls to Chaplin cooking and eating his own shoe and, in the eyes of the ravenous eyes of Big Jim (Mack Swain) when the Lone Prospector turns into a giant strutting chicken as they have been holed up in a food-deprived cabin belonging to the renegade Black Larsen (Tom Murray), each bout of hilarity is as endearing and timeless as the next. Though the Lone Prospector doesn't get the gold in the end, at least he gets something of more worth: the girl (the lovely Georgia Hale)!
Classic Charlie Chaplin movie. Complete with the usual incredibly creative visual comedy and romantic angle. Very funny. Contains some of Chaplin's most memorable and iconic scenes: the stewed boot, the dancing bread rolls (revived for a modern audience by Johnny Depp in Benny and Joon), the cabin on the edge of a cliff (which must have inspired scores of cartoon scenes).Incredibly innovative cinematography for 1925. The chicken illusion scene must have been very original and technologically advanced for its time.One disappointment, however. I saw the 1942 revised version of the movie, wherein Chaplin replaced the written dialogue with narration and added a more in-sync score. No issues with the score, but the narration spoils the movie, to an extent. The great thing about silent movies is figuring out the jokes and plot just by the visual medium. With the narration, it feels like you are spoon-fed the jokes and plot, and makes the whole movie feel dumbed-down.I haven't seen the 1925 version but I imagine I would enjoy that more.


                
A lone prospector(Chaplin, shy and kind, giving the best of all the great physical performances of anyone in this; he also wrote the narration he provides for the version I watched(of this otherwise silent film, and one can see how it worked purely from its visual storytelling), which is 68 minutes long, or 69 if you count the ending credits) goes to Klondike on the titular gold rush(albeit ironically, this is more of a backdrop), meeting new friends, enemies... and perhaps love?This is another slapstick gem. The timing, planning and execution are all spot-on, with most scenes featuring material building to a climax. A lot of the humor comes from the predicament of being trapped in a cabin with little to no food, as well as the sweet(simple, yes, but also enjoyable) romance. There is a real optimism about humanity here, and it is utterly infectious. The universal and age-old themes brought up keep it relevant after nearly 90 years.All this while the thin line between comedy and tragedy grows ever slimmer, nearly disappearing at points. Pacing and score keep certain bits from being terrifying, and make them comical instead. From a technical standpoint, this is well-done. Production values are fairly high, with FX that, while not seamless, have aged well.There is some violence and other disturbing content in this, though the majority of it is funny - not at the expense of those it happens to, we're laughing with, not at, them. I recommend this to anyone who isn't put off by the age, concept or monochromatic nature of this. 8/10


                
"The Gold Rush" I think is one of the best Charlie Chaplin's movies of all time. Charlie Chaplin make a hilarious movie "mocking" the 1898 Gold Rush to Alaska.I think that in this movie Charlie Chaplin wants to show us many other things that have to do with the Gold Rush and how this affect our own lives even today. I also believe that "The Gold Rush" is a diachronic movie and we can get many information from it even nowadays, such as almost on all of the movies made by Charlie Chaplin and this is one of the most important things of Charlie Chaplin.Finally I want to tell you that you have to see this movie like all the other movies of Charlie Chaplin.


                
The film which Charlie Chaplin wanted himself to be remembered for may not be the film for which he's actually remembered today but that doesn't mean The Gold Rush is any lesser quality work from the legendary auteur, it only means that Chaplin later went on to surpass the very standards he set for himself with this silent classic.The Gold Rush tells the story of a lone prospector who ventures into Alaska looking for gold but ends up finding more than what he asked for. On his journey, he finds many interesting people, gets caught in a blizzard, almost starves to death & also comes across a very beautiful woman whose heart he tries to win with his charm.Written, produced, directed, edited & composed by Charlie Chaplin, there are two versions of this film in existence but I prefer the silent one for the voice-over in the 1942 re-issue felt very intrusive to me. As for the film, it's an influential example of its genre & contains many moments that are now counted amongst the most memorable segments of silent cinema.Chaplin's ability to seamlessly infuse slapstick humour into drama continues to impress but the latter part doesn't carry enough weight in my opinion. The funny gags, however, are plenty & each one of them manages to leave its mark. And while Chaplin's work behind the camera is admirable, his performance in the starring role is even more infectious & impressive.On an overall scale, The Gold Rush isn't Charlie Chaplin's magnum opus, at least not in my eyes, but it remains an essential classic of its era that has continued to inspire countless films of its genre ever since. It's worth a shot for that "dancing rolls" sequence alone which is quite possibly Chaplin's single greatest on-screen moment plus the heavy dose of fun, entertainment & laughter it has in store guarantees an experience you hopefully won't regret.P.S. Choose the 1925 silent version over the 1942 re-issue! The latter, however, can be viewed as The Gold Rush with director's commentary.


                
The Gold rush is the second Charlie Chaplin film I've watched recently the other being Modern Time, and both have blown me away. I remember watching scenes of Chaplin as a child but i never watch any from beginning to end as i can remember.The Simple story of a lone prospector travelling to find his fortune, but instead may have found love. The film contains some of Chaplin's most famous scenes. The dancing Potatoes which still today is still hysterical and utterly charming and sweet. Which everyone has probably tried to emulate at some point in their lives. Also the scene involving Chaplin and a cohort eating one of his shoes which is very funny and iconic. The master of slapstick physical humour, you just have to love the childlike nature and innocence of the Tramp character. Whose sentimentality can just warm your heart and make you smile.I think out of two i have scene i prefer Modern Times but that along with The Gold Rush, and Charlie Chaplin in general just have a timeless quality and still remain so effective even now, 80 years on.


                
For me, Chaplin's "City Lights" (1931) has been the quintessential work by the great man, yet lately I've been inclined to revisit his early works. As such, "City Lights" serves as a kind of watershed. His prior work basks in certain boisterousness and hyper-energy that his later work, whilst impeccably refined, does not exhibit to the same degree. Perhaps there is a sense of self- consciousness that many later works display. Perhaps these early works, now that I'm revisiting them so consciously in retrospect, contain more of Chaplin's exuberance. Or then it's just me projecting, aggressively.Be that as it may, "The Gold Rush" (1925) is an altogether enchanting film. Tragicomic in its exultation of love on one hand and its portrayal of the love here as a mere fling on the other, there are many wonderful visual moments that have been used to build our cinematic pantheon: the cottage in the storm, the eating of the shoe, the roll dance. And in the midst of the fireworks, there's Chaplin himself, his timing perfectly nuanced, his expressions fresh. He is at his most handsome, charismatic and unforgettable in how he reacts to the roll dance reception – just look at the man!I prefer the longer, original 1926 cut to the 1942 sound version, mainly because I just can't see the point in having the voice-over. The newer version cuts a few corners, some of which are for the better, and perhaps it is the voice-over that allows Chaplin to do it, but I don't see it as so much tighter a film to encourage myself to revisit it as often as the 1925 cut. The older version breathes and never lags. It could, however, be a nice experience to watch the 1942 cut with the sound off.Whichever your preference, the beautiful Blu-ray released by the Criterion Collection (Region A) is worth its weight in gold, as are all their Chaplin releases for that matter.


                
This was the first silent film that I've ever watched all the way through and I'm sure glad I did. I've always thought that Charlie Chaplin was a genius and it shows in this film extraordinarily. This film is the perfect film to start with if your a beginner in watching silent films, or even classic movies in general. The film keeps the viewer entertained and it's hard to find a boring part although some points are rather repetitive. One of the best parts of the film is that dialogue is not necessary, the antics in the film speak for themselves. All in all I would give this film an 8 out of 10 because it's such an entertaining movie that anyone can watch, it doesn't matter if your not into classic films, or silent films for that matter, the comedy featured is classic and transcends time and CC is an absolute comedic genius and icon.


                
After viewing the Gold Rush, my initial thought was "that was a pretty good movie for a silent film". Honestly, I had my apprehensions at first. I thought that a silent film wouldn't be too exciting, however, I had never really seen an entire film of this sort. The Gold Rush was confusing for me at first, I didn't understand what was going on when the scenes switched from being in the middle of nowhere, to being in a small town. Other than that, I appreciated the fact the Charlie Chaplin was so innovative, and his camera skills were impressive for the 1920's. The acting was humorous and understandable. It was surprisingly easy for me to relate to the characters because of their exaggerated facial expressions and body language. The only part of the film I did not like was when the house was falling of the cliff, it was a little too obvious that it wasn't real, but then again there weren't the same technological advances then as there are now. Overall, The Gold Rush was a great silent film for my first experience.


                
