I don't know what's wrong with the people in charge of programming at NBC.Maybe they think the surge in ratings for unscripted (illeterate ;) ) programming is due to their poor camera work and they've decided to do them one better by intentionally sabotaging some of their shows...It's just baffling how a clearly costly show like Friday Night Lights can look so dismally poor and awful.Yes, Mr. NBC (or whomever's in charge), shaking the camera and playing with the zoom does not make a good TV show. It makes an unwatchable piece of non-entertainment.It's too bad because Friday Night Lights otherwise had the elements for a sleeper hit.But the way it's shot it's just DOA.


                
Where to begin, where to begin? Oh wait!!! I know where to begin, because it begins and ends in the same place: Friday Night Lights looks like it was produced by a couple of 8 year old afflicted with Attention Deficit Disorder.In other words: it's bloody unwatchable! I have no idea where the people behind the scenes got the idea that unprofessional camera work was going to enhance their series, but it's backfired on them.The only people saying positive things about the show are the critics, which in itself says a lot about what critics look for in a TV show: they certainly don't look for quality, because there is none to be seen on Friday Night Lights.


                
For me, it's all about the directing.When the directing is as awful as it is in Friday Night Lights, it doesn't matter what the other elements are like, because I'll just stop watching.I don't have the time or the patience to try and squeeze my eyes to discern what the actors are doing, nor do I want to invest in Dramamine in order to watch a TV show.Peter Berg has made it a habit of badly directing TV shows by shaking the camera to and fro. Maybe he thinks that's brilliant directing. It's not! Actually, it's the worst kind of lazy non-directing that exists and it's a tribute to the sad state of network television (and Hollywood studios) that Mr. Berg's bad directing actually passes muster with executives who are paid to know better.Overall, Friday Night Light is Must-Miss-TV.


                
I am a big fan of the football film "Friday Night Lights". But I must say I hate the TV show with a passion. It has nothing to do with the movie at all. The movie was a more realistic way of high school, this is just plain dumb.The acting is terrible. While in the movie the actor's performances were moving and believable.The movie was based on a true story and the book was made in 1990. This on the other hand is fictional and LAME! I suggest, see the rock hard movie and leave this to burn like the other crappy TV shows on.0/10


                
I mean really. If I want to watch a badly made video, I just have to look at what my little nephew does with his cel phone. I don't need to watch NBC to see unwatchable footage.Actually, my little nephew's footage is a lot more professional than Friday Night Light's.It makes one wonder what the executive at NBC think of their audience... Clearly, they don't think they care about quality.Well, I care about quality, and between The Office and Friday Night Lights, I now know to avoid anything NBC promotes as "quality".When NBC says "Quality", you must flee, because all you'll get in another unwatchable bad show.GE should fire all the NBC execs for having green-lit that stinker.


                
I rarely watch TV, cause it is all crap, except 30 Rock, but I love football. I hadn't heard about this TV show before it was canceled so I was pleased when I was given the first season on DVD for my birthday. Popped it in and was really looking forward to a football story but what I got was the O.C. in Dawson's Creek with a pig skin.What the heck??!!!? This wasn't about football it was about glamour pretty boys with enough locker room time to stimulate the mostly female audience. Boys pouting about their slut girlfriends, and a little town of nobodies has nothing to do with the game. I understand now why I had never heard of it. I didn't last two episodes. Threw it on e-bay to get rid of it and lo and behold, I discovered it was selling for twenty dollars at Walmart. I sold it for five bucks. Jesus! This was made for the small Texas town where the true story took place, cause the rest of America doesn't care. We watch 30 Rock.


                
The question in the minds of all observers of television mores is "Why has NBC renewed Friday Night Lights?" After all, the show has been universally panned for its awful film-making technique which have been described in various unflattering ways. And truly, shaking the camera does little, if anything, to further the stories of FNL. Worse, the camera-work interferes with the telling of the stories.As to the ratings, they are through the roof all right. They crashed through the roof and they are headed for the cellar. Every week is poorly rated and there is no sign that NBC's constant campaign for FNL in the press will lead to any more viewers.The sad thing is that NBC could have saved the show by hiring a few good directors and letting them do their thing.But it didn't. And now NBC has another low-rated bad show on its hands.UPDATE: Friday Night Light got renewed to a third, even lower-rated season.Perhaps NBC thinks that the lower the ratings, the higher the profits...


                
After reading quite a bit about how Friday Night Lights has quality writing and acting, with several people saying it's the most realistic TV show since My So-Called Life, and reassuring non-sports fans like me that "it's not really about football...it's about life"...I caved in and watched the first few episodes.Are you people nuts? Football *IS* their life. Not my life. There is nothing I can relate to, and nobody for me to care about.If there was true depth and analysis going on here, I guess I could stomach watching a show about annoying football fanatics in Texas who constantly burst into public prayer. Maybe. But the storyline (that I've seen so far) is clichéd & predictable, the writing provides no insightful moments, the characterization is superficial, and the acting is unremarkable...from what I can tell, although it's not easy to judge the level of the actors' abilities when the camera refuses to stand still for a minute and let me SEE the performance.I don't like pretentious documentary/indie-style camera work. Luckily I don't get sick from shaky-cam, but the same cannot be said for certain members of my family who get headaches/nausea trying to watch that sort of thing. Luckily they're not missing much by avoiding FNL. Is there a good reason for the jumpy camera-work and quick cuts/zooms? A reason that serves the story? I think not. They're just trying to be edgy or fit in with reality shows, I suppose.Here's why Friday Night Lights is NOTHING like My So-Called Life, OK? (Despite the fact that Jason Katims has written for both and W.G. Snuffy Walden has written music for both) 1. MSCL has real cinematography. It's like a beautifully shot film. Gorgeous framing of characters in shots, innovative transitions from one scene to another, stunning dream sequences, etc. Many people have admitted taking ideas from MSCL, like the director of Jerry Maguire, and Joss Whedon. Most importantly the visual style and techniques used on MSCL actually have meaning and purpose in telling the story and helping you understand the characters.2. MSCL is not afraid to use silence and stillness. MSCL allows the viewer to breathe and to think.3. MSCL has excellent writing. The characters are not stereotypical or one-dimensional. They have layers, and their development is never contrived. The dialogue is memorable, and the observations are smart and TRUE.4. MSCL has a spiritual element without being preachy or emphasizing a particular religion. MSCL encourages compassion and understanding among different types of people. On MSCL you'll find gay people and other minorities. Not portrayed as villains or comic relief or there to be politically correct either. Just real people.I could go on. Let's just say I never had any of the following reactions while watching MSCL: "She can't act. What a grating voice. And ridiculously cutesy dialogue. Barf." "Cliched black guy. Wow, they're really portraying him as a selfish opportunistic jerk who's totally heartless about his paralyzed teammate and...Wait, did his mom actually diss "that white girl" her son was making out with? So she's a tramp but he isn't? Nice way to deal with racism (I didn't know blacks persecuted whites in Texas) AND offend feminists at the same time.""Are there gonna be ANY female characters on this show whose function doesn't revolve around providing support/sex/baked goods to the men? Really not a show for feminists. The Coach's daughter doesn't count since they're telegraphing it pretty plainly that she's gonna end up with the replacement QB and so her anti-football player stance is just a "cute" obstacle...bleh." "How did I know the star would get injured and the backup QB would save the day?" "Why is the camera taking a stalker's viewpoint in this scene between the Coach and his wife?! Lurking, peering around corners...it's not supposed to be an ominous scene. Do they want us to feel like uncomfortable voyeurs? Guess so, 'cause now there's a totally unnecessary extreme closeup of them kissing! Back up, back up! I reeeally don't need to be that close!""I'm bored."
What a terrible, terrible show.NBC has been hyping this show as a "quality" show, but in reality, Friday Night Lights is an affront to movie making.It's sad because there is a genuine demand for this kind of show... if only it was well-made.Who at NBC thinks that shaking the camera creates anything more than sea-sickness and revulsion in the public? Who on earth thought that a story from the heartland would be better if it looked like it was shot by a five year old trying to carry a professional camera (that would account for the nonsensical zooms and constant unmotivated pan downs).If there was a prize for horrid film making, Friday Night Lights would get it along with The Office and Battlestar Galactica (all NBC shows, all unwatchable!) I feel sick for Kyle Chandler and Connie Britton that their work is so sabotaged by incompetent producers and directors.


                
And it really doesn't take that many more words: Friday Night Lights is so horrifically badly made that it's unwatchable.Friday Night Lights is the latest in a sub-current of TV shows where the filmmakers have decided that directing was a thing of the past when you could just shake the camera constantly and call it "gritty", "documentary-style" and "realistic".Frankly, I don't know what makes them think that being constantly reminded that there is a bad camera operator shaking the camera would make one think that the show is "gritty".Maybe the producers felt doing this complete nonsense was necessary to put on the air such a boring- sounding show. But the joke is now on them, and on NBC, because this show will remain a footnote, along the other badly filmed shows that nobody watched like Arrested Development, The Office and Battlestar Galactica.


                
I was going to say THE ABSOLUTE WORST, but sadly there is no dearth of competition for the title.Networks should get a hint that producing dramas that look worse than a reality show is just no going to pay off.Yes, Friday Night Lights is so awful in its visuals, it makes watching Survivor or Cops a rare cinematographic pleasure in comparison.It's amazing to me that anyone at a professional organization would have their heads so far up their PR department that they would think that the visual clap-trap of shaking the camera and zooming in and out of practically every shot, that passes for directing on Friday Night Ligkts is anything other than pure unwatchable nonsense.Shame on Peter Berg (a good actor but a lousy director) for directing it so poorly and on NBC for putting this tragic travesty on the air.


                
Why would anyone put a show like this on the air? I found it insulting, condescending and off-putting because of the ridiculous way it is filmed.What are we supposed to think? That this soapish re-hash is somehow "fresh" because the directors shake the camera and have an army of extras parade in front of the camera to make what little you can squeeze at even harder to distinguish? How pathetic.How ridiculous.Shaking the camera doesn't impart any quality of realism when it is used on every scene indiscriminately. It just imparts nausea.If that's all that Jeff Zucker can put on NBC, then he should take his early retirement, because all he did (between this disaster and The Office) is establish NBC as the Must Avoid Network.UPDATE: Friday Night Light continues to under-perform in the ratings and NBC's last sweeps week was a paltry 5+ million viewers. Jeff Zucker was of course promoted for taking his network from first to fourth.


                
