The PR for the show purports that it somehow "captures" high school life.Unfortunately it does no such thing.I guess that the creators of the show decided that the best way to "capture" high school life was to make a fake reality show. After all, reality shows are the rage, right? The result is a show that looks many times worse than a reality show, to the point where it's unwatchable.The nausea-inducing camera-work is so bad that it makes the cheapest reality show look like an Orson Welles masterpiece in comparison.No wonder NBC went from first to last under Jeff Zucker if that's what he thinks is good television...


                
I just don't get why some producers seem to think that shaking the camera to and fro is somehow making you feel like you're watching something real.It doesn't.It makes you feel like you're watching a bit of horridly badly made TV that makes the so-called "reality" shows look like masterpieces of film-making.Friday night Lights was promoted with a lot of fanfare (and still is) as some sort of "quality" show. That's why I tried to watch it.Boy was I disappointed.The Critics and PR hacks once again put their ever-diminishing weight behind yet another unwatchable loser.Maybe it's time Hollywood start paying attention to the quality of its film-making, rather than the quality of its PR.In the meantime, I hope FNL will be canceled so Kyle Chandler can get a job doing something worthwhile... or even just watchable.


                
There's really not much to say about Friday Night Lights.It all starts and ends with the way it is shot. When the shooting of a TV show is so amateurish, it doesn't matter if it's done on purpose or if it's a mistake.Regardless, it makes the show unwatchable.When you zoom in and out at all times, it makes no difference if the performances are good or bad. You're too distracted to even notice.Some goes for the writing: when you are made sea-sick by the unneeded and pointless camera movements, it really doesn't make one bit of difference if the show is well-written or not.If NBC wants to save FNL, it's really easy: it needs to hire some good directors and tell the public it's changed for the better. Then we'd see if all the hype was worth it.If it doesn't (and I'm not holding my breath because clearly the inmates run the Asylum at NBC) then Friday Night Lights will join Arrested Development and many other shows in the trash heap of hyped and forgotten shows.


                
The endless hype over Friday Night Lights got me to take a look at this show, and boy was it worth it!! I didn't know whether to throw something at the TV or laugh on the floor at the pathetically inept spectacle that is Friday Night Lights.Apparently NBC still thinks that having a bunch of bad directors shake the camera aimlessly and play with the zoom of their camera as if it were a new toy is something that audiences want to see.Someone needs to tell them the skinny! Audiences are not watching this fake "masterpiece" because there is nothing masterful about it. Getting a bunch of blind critics to sing the praises of something so badly done only achieves two things: 1) It makes critics lose what little credibility they had left after endorsing Arrested Development.2) It makes it that much harder to sell the public on anything NBC has to sell next time, because for the next hype I probably won't even bother to try the show.NBC should apologize to all the people who wasted their time with Friday Night Lights.


                
Creatively and commercially, Friday Night Lights was dead on arrival. The camera-work is so awful it made audiences leave the show before the first hour was over and they won't come back.Why in the world would anyone in their right minds renew a horrible show like Friday Night Lights: It's poorly made and does not draw an audience (the show is drawing 5 million viewers now which should have automatically gotten it canceled).But NBC didn't want to let all its PR money "go to waste" (never mind that they wasted it in the first place on a bad show).It's a testament to the bad taste of Jeff Zucker that he chose to renew this awful travesty of a TV show rather than renew a great show like Raynes which had similar ratings without any PR spent on it.


                
We're supposed to give Friday Night Lights a chance because it got a Peabody Award... Well, after watching an episode, all I can say is that the Peabody Awards don't mean anything when it comes to quality television.This show is amateurish at best, except that amateurs would not be trying every opportunity to downgrade their own show.Visually, this show is a disgrace. The much talked about and rightly derided shaky-cam is a major hindrance for anything good to come out of this enterprise. But worse, the use of unneeded and unmotivated rack focus just attracts the attention to the fact that people who don't know how to tell the story visually are at the helm.Film being a visual medium, not much good can be seen after such bad camera work.I give them points for having good older leads, but they are wasted in this dread enterprise.Friday Night Lights is one of those shows that most people won't watch, and for good reason.


                
What is it with NBC? Do they really want people to call them Must-Miss-TV? They must since they have put Friday Night Lights on the schedule.Let's start with a very simple proposition: Film is an audio-visual medium. That means the visuals have to be pretty important right? After all, we hear all the time how film is a story told in pictures...Well, what sense does it make to sabotage your visuals as Friday Night Lights does? I mean, who is gonna care if the acting is good or bad if the camera-work prevents you from focusing on the story.The extremely poor decision of the producers of Friday Night Lights (and presumably of NBC which gave the thumbs up to the badly directed pilot) just killed any chance that their show would be successful on the air.I mean, how experienced of a director do you really have to be to realize that "shaking the camera makes thing look more real" is an intellectual crutch for plain bad film-making? Let's hope NBC finally sees the light and grants a new season to something worthwhile like the excellent Raines with Jeff Goldblum.UPDATE: Raines, of course, was not picked up, while Friday Night Lights was. It has since continued its career of lowering NBC's audience every week it's been on.


                
I've tried watching this three times now and I still can't get beyond the pilot. I guess I'm just not the target audience because I found it purile high-school tosh. Off the top of my head things that annoyed me in the first 20 minutes:unnecessary references to god and Christianity - stereotyped black homeboy who, surprise surprise, raps - plastic Barbie-doll girls being bitchy - the assumption that 'everyone likes football' - an entire town that only ever seems to talk about football tactics, including the mayor, business men, girlfriends...This is not 'real life drama' as one reviewer puts it. This simply panders to the fantasies of a testosterone-fuelled 14 year old boy. If this really is what a small town is like in America, then I feel sorry for you. This was painful to watch.


                
