You probably watch Grey's anatomy. To say that FNL is a bad show is just knowledge that you don't know television. Its not the best show, but it has good acting writing, and definitely worth a 2nd season. Kyle Chandler shines as the coach, and Gaius Charles, Zach Gilford and the rest of the cast are extremely underrated.(Minka Kelly isn't that good but she is gorgeous). The show has real stories, and the actual football is probably the worst part of the show. Its depiction of the small town Texas is extremely accurate. The show develops its relationships and characters, unlike other shows. It is probably top 5 dramas on television right now, and maybe the best character drama on television. Ill put LOST under adventure first. To say its bad just shows that you don't know TV


                
I'll admit that the shaky camera strategy is not my favourite and the acting by a few starts off less than spectacular...away from that, this show is wonderful. I really don't know why there is so little love for it. Perhaps the fact that the football isn't the focus and it was marketed as a football show.Personally, I think the story lines are interesting and the writing is extremely well done. Characters stay in character and nobody is one dimensional. Everything is shades of grey. Connie Britton makes the show for me. Her acting is superb and her on screen relationship with Kyle Chandler is amazing, if only every marriage could be so full of love and understanding. If you're looking for a full on, football focused, sports show, this is not for you. If you like very well done and at most times well acted character dramas, Friday Night Lights is where you want to be.


                
They've captured the gritty look and small-town-suffocation feel of the movie really well. Except for a slight downgrade in talent (you get the guy from "Early Edition" instead of Billy Bob Thornton, for example), it's almost the exact same experience. Which is impressive for a TV show, but I'm not sure what they plan to do differently. The pilot hits all the same story beats as the film. I'm concerned with how they plan to stretch the drama of a two-hour movie out over an entire season, especially when anyone who has seen the film could predict what story turns to expect. I feel like I already know what's going to happen to every character.Hopefully, the show will prove me wrong. I'll give it a chance this fall.


                
This television series ( spin ) from the motion picture, caught my attention. Having enjoyed the original film, I gave the t.v. series a try. I do enjoy the story lines, dealing with different individuals and their personal lives and daily struggles. I must say that every episode, so far, has all but given me a headache at halftime !! I do believe they could do a bit less of the :.. get the close-up of his eye, no, back out now, turn the camera to the right, look up now, back-out, zoom in on her ear, get the guy walking in front of everyone, no, where did we start.....I actually end up listening to the second half, rather than to put up with the irritating camera work, to avoid the headache from the eye strain.


                
It is very light-hearted and it isn't complex at all. This series revolves around trials and tribulations of small-town Texas football players, their friends, family, and coaching staff. This low-rated series wasn't too, too bad as our characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated many falsehoods. I suggest you enjoy the first eight or so episodes for what they are and let your mind play around with the opportunities there can be to make something interesting. The plots were not as well thought out as they could have been, but, you know what, it still does the cast well. The editing lets the actors breathe and the music lets the atmosphere live. I like it, and I don't even like football.


                
(This is a late review, I watched this show awhile ago, but haven't been able to get on IMDb to write reviews)As my Summary states, this show had mostly hits, but there were some misses as well. First off, Kyle Chandler did a fantastic job as Coach Taylor, he was really the biggest saving grace of the entire show. If it wasn't for him, I probably wouldn't have finished watching the whole thing. But other parts of the cast, it depends on how you view the whole "high school" context. Some problems were very petty (which high school is full of so..) and some things that happened were a little extreme for me, but I'll excuse it I guess. However, it does portray well the extreme allegiance that people have when it comes to their local sports teams(especially in Texas with football and definitely when it comes to parents of players and former players/alumni). Plemmons and Gilford did a good job, the two of them together was a good friendship portrayal.Season 1 was great, Season 2 dipped and then the show seemed to find its way again in the later seasons.Overall it was a decent show, but only because of Kyle Chandler.


                
There seem to be an awful lot of film students bagging this show because of the camera work. If they could get past this, they would find a good engaging show where the football acts as a nice backdrop to the various issues in the characters' lives.The acting is at an acceptable standard for the most part. The exceptions being some of the adult actors, strangely enough. They aren't helped by the scriptwriters who don't give the actors much to work with in terms of character development.The young ensemble members on the other hand, are much more capable, are easy on the eye and have been given characters that are being fleshed out as the series progresses. I'm glad to see it's been picked up for another season.


                
In 1988, journalist H.G. "Buzz" Bissinger moved to a small town in Texas to cover a local high school football team, the Panthers in Odessa, Texas. There he found a town which was obsessed with its team. The townspeople paid for things like police escorts when the team members would go to their home games and lavish social functions care of the female fans offering tea, coffee and cakes. They even chartered flights to away games. At the same time, Bissinger noticed darker sides of the town's obsession with their team, which included putting for sale signs in the coach's yard when the teams wasn't doing well, and making disparaging remarks about coaches and players who didn't perform up to expectation. He discovers some racist comments regarding African-American players who are not playing up to standard. Realizing this obsession with this high school team was more like the critical analysis of college or professional sports, Bissinger wrote about the experience and the team in a book called "Friday Night Lights: A Town, a Team, and a Dream".In 2004, a film adaption of the book was released with Billy Bob Thornton as Coach Gary Gaines, Lucas Black as quarterback Mike Winchell, and Derek Luke as James "Boobie" Miles. While the film is relatively true to the players of the 1988 team, it leaves so much out of what makes the original book so starkly compelling. First off, the film decided to ax the journalist Bissinger from the story. While the story is from Bissinger's eyes in the book, and he was given access to the town and the team in a speech at a game to explain his function to write about the town's cultural obsession with the team, both positive and negative aspects, the film has no such perspective. It meanders from different players, coaches and parents, but never offers us the view of a journalist trying to understand the culture which has over the years developed around the team. Some of the most interesting aspects contained in the book, such as the escorts and charter flights, were completely removed from the story.From the book, we gather the team is literally the cultural focus of the entire town. While this aspect was very developed in the book, very little of this side of the story is explored in the film. We do hear some radio commentators criticizing the coach and players like an NFL team, but we see the fans of the team very little. We also see the for sale signs at the coach's house but we don't understand that these are disgruntled fans making it known they wish the coach to leave the team. The acting is pretty good, especially Thornton as the coach, and the players. The most interesting aspect is their star player, James "Boobie" Miles (Luke) who sustains a potentially hazardous injury at the beginning of the season. Miles clearly desires to go to university with a football scholarship and probably has his sites set on the NFL. However, as events unfold, all of his dreams may be thwarted.A decent film which could have been outstanding if they used the perspective of the journalist. Instead, we go from player-to-player and experience their stories, but I felt I wasn't quite pulled in. I needed something a little more substantive to keep me riveted. And Bissinger discovered some racism beneath the veneer which gets little exploration. Some of the town were very upset with the book, as if their dirty little secrets were exposed. I wanted to see some of the secrets exposed as they were in the book, but we get the sense the filmmakers balked at the idea because they didn't want the film to be as controversial as the book. Is it a good film? Generally yes. It is a great one? Could have been. I could picture someone like Tommy Lee Jones playing Buzz Bissinger, but alas, it was not to be.


                
