I've watched the show all season and I've never really thought about the camera work. The characters are well developed and the acting is solid. The story lines are relevant and the drama is believable. All in all, very entertaining. I'm really surprise to see so many negative comments solely related to the camera work. Maybe it just doesn't matter to me much but I am sure it is not "unwatchable" like all of the comments seem to state.I was glad to hear that NBC is bringing this show back next year. It's one of our favorites. If you heed the warnings about the camera work you might be missing something that you would really enjoy.


                
Well. First of all. The first time I saw FNL I thought it'll be boring. I'm the typical TV watcher who watches what I see is cool or funny or great. Maybe I felt the same way like the others who doesn't like FNL.Until I continued to watch it for a couple of episodes. I got interested. I don't know why but it seems to be good as it gets along. The story is about a family with the dad having been the football coach. The daughter is the high school teenager who experiences everything a girl should experience. The mom is hardworking and house committed mother. Other subjects include the lives of the football players. The cheerleaders. The conflicts between families and other marital problem. It was kind of like NBC's past series,,, American Dreams (which I love also but they cancelled it.) only that AD's time plot is in the 60's.Now I've just read the Television Critics Association nominations which also includes 30 Rock, Ugly Betty, Lost, American Idol, The Sopranos and many other great TV series..And there is FNL. I never thought it would be there but I feel great and satisfied about it. Sometimes, TV shows that seemed to be like "BORING" may not be that type anymore when you continue watching it. It's not the typical teenage series like The OC or the One Tree Hill though there's an obvious resemblance to the teenage plot.It all got what we wanted. A family, A group of Friends, Boyfriends/Girlfriends, Marital Problems, School, Work, Team, and the aura of a good television program.I say Friday Night Lights deserve some watchers.


                
This show is very entertaining, it is well casted. The story is great, who doesn't love watching high school football, it adds story to where the movie left off, with different characters. It was the one show this past year my roommates and I always watched. This deserves multiple seasons, and has produced good numbers for NBC, and also was nominated for an Emmy. This show has even gotten time on ESPN. Kyle Chandler does an excellent job as Coach Taylor, he is a very lovable character. As for the women on this show, wow, gorgeous.Their choice of camera style, I personally like a lot, it makes me feel like I am more amerced into the show.


                
I was actually pretty shocked at some of the comments on this show. I absolutely loved the movie version of Friday Night Lights, and I am a huge sports fan, especially of football, so this show intrigued me from the very beginning. This show, while it is a slightly different animal from the movie, is awesome.I have seen some comments about poor acting and poor camera-work, but I think the complete opposite on both accounts. The acting is great in this show. A lot of shows these days are overstuffed with meaningless dialog and over-boosted vocabulary, Fiday Night Lights does not suffer from this affliction, in fact it does more to convey emotion through less through words and more through action and looks than I have seen in any show or movie in a while.A shaky camera is mostly considered an "amateur" device, but in some movies and shows it works wonders. This show is an example of it working well as it gives the show a documentary-like feel, it immerses you in the story. It was a little too shaky in the first 2 episodes or so, but it now feels just right, and it also allows them to catch things from much different angles than seen in other shows, giving it a fresh look and feel.If you expect this show to be a facsimile of the movie, you will be disappointed because this is a modernized and different take on high school football in the state of Texas. Some of the core themes are similar, as is shown in the constant battle between the importance of winning versus the importance of character that the coach faces. It also shows the pressure that some 15-18 year olds face playing big time high school sports, and it does so quite well.This show is not perfect at all, it suffers from some overly dramatized situations from time to time, but so do all networks dramas of late it seems. That, however, does not take away from how enjoyable the characters are, and how enjoyable the show as a whole is. I hope this one sticks around for a while as there are very few good shows like this one on TV right now.


                
I think this translated really well from the film to a television series. I like the changes they made, I think they left a good amount of room for story lines to grow and to develop the characters. The cast works really well together they have a lot of chemistry. I like the relationship that the coach's family has with the rest of the cast the coach is not only the coach on the team, but he and his family are mentors for the whole town. I like the new character they introduced as a love interest for Jason Street. I think she could be a really great character. I like that the whole focus of the show is not just football, but it does connect everything. I hope this show gets picked up for another season because I found it very entertaining and well written show.


                
Despite receiving great critical reviews Friday Night Lights has been met with little success. New to the show I recently watched the first season in its entirety on NBC.com and fell in love with the plot lines and the characters. The show is great for male or female viewers with male viewers like myself enthralled by the great football related story lines and female viewers interested in the complex relationships between characters. Currently my only qualm with the show is that it is broadcast on Friday nights at nine which is a prime viewing time for a large part of its target audience, high school football watchers, since high school football games are played on Friday nights across the nation.


                
Most of the negative comments about this show seem to dismiss it because it uses shaky cam technique in the filming. What a bizarre reason to use to pan a show. While I can see that this technique may be distracting to a minority of viewers, it's neither unusual these days nor really worth commenting upon. I mean, so what? It has no bearing on the truly important aspects of any show--the acting, plot, and character development. These elements of Friday Night Lights have all been top notch so far. As my brother-in-law said, most movies or shows about high school football portray it as people think it is. This show shows us high school football as it really is. Not only that, though. I'm not a football or sports fan at all. This show is about life in a small, economically depressed town with a lot of people who are living at or near poverty level. Many of them have broken families. The show is about how they make their lives work. It also shows the real challenges, both within families and within communities, faced by everyone--even those with functioning families. It's not all sad, though, there is a lot of gentle humor in looking at the normal foibles of high school life. I also really like the plot-line about quadriplegia and murder-ball. Very interesting. Check out this great show. If you've missed episodes, they can be watched on-line.
The first thing I noticed was that the acting was a little shaky, but you have to understand that this is a new show with relatively young actors. So of course, the acting is going to be questionable. I feel that this show does an excellent job at capturing the drama of high school football. The intensity, the anticipation for game night, feuds between teammates, relationships off the field, rivalries, heartbreaking injuries, pressure from the town, etc. If you enjoy football and know what it's like playing high school football, then you will love this show. Just have to be able to look past the questionable acting and camera work.


                
One critic said that FNL is not just good, it is good in the way a poem or short story is good. I couldn't agree more. Succinct and vibrant, the stories are rarely overdone. With subtle repetition of themes and verbal/picture irony, the show explores the depths of human emotion and the various ways they are (often clumsily) dealt with.In a world where the vast majority of TV shows are "reality" shows or fantasy, it is great to see a show which (minus one ridiculous plot twist at the beginning of season 2) resonates with realism. The rough cinematographic tactics, poignant story arches and spot-on improv acting combine to reverberate with meaning, however gritty, however awkward, poetically examining how we continue to move forward despite limited options, growing into people we never imagined we'd be. Fantastic.


                
I am from Australia and I could not get enough of this show.


                
Friday Night Lights takes you back to everything you miss about those high school Friday nights. The pep rallies, the game itself, winning, losing, and the parties after. In Dillon, Texas football is a way of life. Coach Taylor puts his all into his team, no matter what, and in turn his players put their heart and soul into each and very game. I think this show is amazing, but some situations you must be mature enough to handle. Also you must be mature enough to know that life is not always like what you see on television. Some things such as underage drinking happen all the time and it is taken very lightly, not like the real world. All in all, Friday Night Lights will always have my heart. "Texas Forever."
I feel that this show is great. A show with so many different characters and all having their own separate story lines, the writers have done a great job not letting you forget about a single one of them. That's a hard task when forced to put that all into an hour long episode with commercials. The nontraditional camera angles give the show its own identity as opposed to conforming to the way things have always been done. They can be fast at times but I feel as though that makes you focus more on what the director actually wants you to see in each scene. My one negative comment is the characters lack of consistency, they change directions quite often and it sometimes makes me wonder if I missed something. All in all though I feel as though this show represents an accurate perception of a Texas town who is dedicated to football, family, and religion and has pride for what they believe. Season three can not get here fast enough.


                
Reading through some of the negative reviews on here has me shaking my head. I cannot relate to any of the complaints made.Frankly, this is one of the best shows I've seen in recent memory. I can't think of another show that feels as believable or as enjoyable as this one. I credit the believability to the fact that the writers (and the actors) give the characters so much detail -- the big scenes work because the characters are great in the small parts. Their mannerisms, their dialogue, their expressions, their interaction with each other, all of it is so precise and real, the rest of the show works. I can think of only a handful of shows that get that right.As for the "shaky cam" complaints -- to be honest, I feel like I'm watching a different show. The only time I've noticed much "shake" is during the football scenes. And in those cases, it works perfectly, adding to the sense of rush the players and the fans are feeling (which is a good thing, especially for those of us who don't normally like football). And the rest of the time, the camera work is beautiful. They're constantly using different angles, making the whole scene that much more interesting to look at. The constant movement and changing of camera work keeps scenes fresh. I have yet to notice anything "nauseating" or annoying, like some of the previous comments have made out.All in all, great show. I came into it skeptical, but was immediately taken with it. It's intelligent, human, and exceptionally executed. I sincerely hope NBC sticks with it.


                
I have noticed as well that directors are going more towards the hand held type of presentation to try to Imitate the sense of reality. While this can be distracting if it is used to much, I think it is a great tool for a movie. Friday Night Lights I think does a great job of offering a good balance between the two. Lots of times this is over used, Tony Scott for example seems to like this way of filming a lot in his latest movies (Man on Fire, and Domino) I think there is a more recent one but I don't remember. Anyways I think directors should keep pushing the envelope of filming. Just because people like to see the special effects and big budget actors, there are lots of us who like to see the more creative side of movies. One movie I think the hand held technique sort of ruins it for the viewer is the Bourne Identity. Fantastic series, but some of the fighting scenes are just horrible to watch because the camera man is to close to the action and it gives you a headache, it also kind of creates a unreal feeling to Matt Damon's character. it almost makes you feel that if the camera wasn't making all these quick movements Bourne would be just another James Bond flick and we wouldn't think nearly as much of Damon being a true butt-kicker. Either way these films are both great and the use of hand held filming I think should continue.


                
People hate shaky cameras, I get it. But give the show a chance. Among the plethora of unemotive garbage on television these days, this series stands alone for subtle story-telling and authentic relationships. I would hazard my reputation and say it would be impossible for this show to jump the shark. And don't worry...you don't have to understand or care about football in order to understand or care about this show. All you have to do is watch two or three episodes.P.S.: I'm the kind of person who enjoys premium television to regular cable. I love Deadwood, The Wire, Dexter, Californication, Brotherhood, etc. --When I watch regular cable, I watch two shows and two shows only...Mad Men and Friday Night Lights.


                
I like "Friday Night Lights" despite that, being an European, I don't know that much about football.But I've been involved with other team sports so I recognize a lot when it comes to the chemistry between players, coaches, fans and all that.I think that "Friday Night Lights" actually manage to come up with a realistic and entertaining series about a small town where the local team is the pride and joy for its inhabitants.OK, some stereotypes here and there but so what? Not worse than I've seen in some other series.The characters are good and the stories about their daily life, problems and happiness are interesting.A very good and watchable show! I hope that there will be more than just three seasons of it.


                
Honestly, if the only thing you're looking at on a show is the camera work, you're watching the wrong thing, Scorsese.This show tells about many main issues of the day like drugs, alcohol, peer pressure, cyber bullying, rape and many others.The only complaint I have is that people overcome their issues just a little too quickly... very TV showish.I am not a football fan whatsoever... but you don't need to be for this show. The well-acted characters draw you in and make you never want to leave.Watch a couple of episodes... it'll suck you in.


                
Clear eyes, full hearts can't lose.That is the motto of this amazing show, which has, at its core pure heart and doing the right thing in the face of difficult circumstances.Leads Kyle Chandler (Early Edition) and Connie Britton bring a sincerity to their every move and action. They strive to do the right thing in every situation, and lead with courage and integrity. Sometimes in Dillon, Texas, that is very difficult.Even the younger members of the cast have a quality of heart to their performances that is rarely seen on network TV.I adore every episode of Friday Night Lights, even though I'm not really much for stuff about football, or small Texas towns or shows about teens. Friday Night Lights has warmth and generosity of spirit that should be sought out by discriminating viewers.


                
It's pretty obvious that Friday night lights is in direct competition with the likes of One Tree Hill and the O.C but it exceeds all expectations to bring such a well rounded show that transcends age. The twists and turns of the plot are real problems that affect well drawn characters, my greatest criticism of other teen shows would be the ridiculousness of the plot - someone always needs to die or commit a haeneous crime but FNL sticks to real plots. The plots revolve around how the characters interact, even the most mediocre of plot variations can bring about a really interesting array of character reactions. The writers have really captured the dramatic element of the human condition, the town revolves around a football coach and his wife who reach beyond the norm to bring out the best of those around them. Even though most characters never even commit a crime there's still a real feeling of good and evil as you realise how misguided the intentions of some characters are and they never stray too far from people that you've met in real life.The mock-amateur camera style really brings home the realistic feel of the show, the cast are all relatively unknown but some of them are absolutely fantastic actors and actresses. There are a lot of central characters and they all get deep plots that show both sides of the personality. I have nothing but praise for Friday night lights, the first show I've seen that captures every aspect of the human condition.


                
This is technically very well done, the shaky cam (bit of an issue) is, one can only assume an artifice that is intended to demonstrate some kind of 'realness',<U+0085>. The weird thing is all you reviewers from the U S eulogising (sorry, 'zing) the reality of this show, I mean? Really! Is your life really pure corn & cheese? Does everything get sorted out (in the last minute?) not a loose end in sight. Anyhow I give it 8 purely for the pleasure of allowing my brain to rot for an hour every nowandagain and to marvel at the fantasy that America thinks this is real. Every character is intensely annoying in their own particular way, which makes prolonged viewing inadvisable, not sure that having just one character we could sympathise with might help? But,, hey! This is reality.


                
Like the above line says, I actually like it. I was dogging on my buddy for an entire year because of how much he liked the show and how much he would endorse it, I saw part of one episode at the time and that was enough for me to make sure my buddy was going to feel really dumb every time he mentioned that show around me. Until about two weeks ago. I watched it on Netflix off XBOX Live (the only way to go), and I gotta admit I was hooked. I think the stories are done pretty well for the most part, especially if you've played high school football at a serious level. But I actually like the camera work, I think it plays well on how shaky the whole f&*$ing thing is. There's not one "stable" character in that show. Throughout the course of the season and a half I've watched of it, I think the show has displayed a lot of characters with a 365 degree view, showing their imperfections and all. I think the camera work is indicative of that. I also come from a younger generation where that style of camera work doesn't really bother me the way it does others and I understand that is a personal opinion as well.I definitely think some of the actors could use work, but as far as the "main" characters go, I think they're enough to carry the show. The coach and his wife have a great dynamic, appealing to almost any married couple. The coach's persona (not play calling, because we rarely see any examples of it) is so spot-on for what a really good coach is like, it's not even funny. But again that will probably also depend on your personal experience with sports and coaches.Bottom line, pretty good show for network TV. It would have been way better on HBO or Showtime though.
Kyle Chandler is amazing in this show. The supporting cast varies in talent and story. However, the stand outs are tops. Matt Saracen, Brian Williams, and Coach Taylor are well thought out characters. Tami Taylor, Tim Riggins, and Tyra Collette start a bit too cliché but get better each season. The actors all do well and are anchored by Kyle Chandler's screen presence and Peter Burg's love for the story.I grade the show to have a about 50% cheese factor. I don't really like this, but know that it appeals to many. I am hooked on the show because of the other half. The half that takes your through the lives of diverse complicated characters with an even objective hand. NBC and DIrectTV have a gem that they should let fans cherish for another three seasons.Great show that just keeps getter better.


                
