First of all, the visuals were outstanding. There were many different types of animation and some of them were breathtaking.The stories were another machine altogether. Most of the stories were written by men that were based on stories written by men. A bit convoluted but there you go. Alberto Mielgo is a prepubescent boy hiding in the body of a man and this is obvious to anyone that looks at his work. I no longer wonder why Sony fired him. Philip Gelatt has very little talent which is probably why they get him to rewrite crappy stories into even crappier stories. Maybe he has a brain parasite that only allows him to interpret everything into a teenage boy's wet dream, lol. Who knows? Who cares?I saw a lot of sex, and machines/robots being sexualized but I didn't see any love. The series should have been called sex, death and robots. The stories themselves were unoriginal and for the most part, boring. Lots of war/blowing things up, trying to be clever, but it's all old and it's awful.Not impressed but had to give it a 3 out of 10 for the animation style and that's it.


                
The majority of these shorts are both predictable and needlessly edgy. The amount of cringe-worthy cursing and pointless nudity is crazy.Save yourself some time and watch the good shorts: Lucky 13, Zima Blue, Good Hunting, and When the Yogurt Took Over.Honestly I have no clue how some of these were even written. It's a shame that such a good genre was dumbed down to the most simplistic and one dimensional shorts ever created.


                
Was very excited for this new series, but right off the bat, the very first episode was immediately one for the garbage can. It's not just that the cringe-inducing cliched characters are straight out of a 10 year old's imagination---wannabe toughs replete with vile temperaments and non-existent personalities---but the swift and enthusiastic embracing of the "men are toxic" and SJW class-warfare tropes are both prime examples of coming from simpletons, serving only to intentionally insult the majority audience (sorry, not sorry, snowflakes) such a series depends on for its very existence. I don't need yet another thinly disguised rant on imaginary societal ills.


                
I couldn't make it through more than three episodes, so it might get better; but I doubt it. The first two episodes were well animated, but with pretty shallow and poorly acted stories. The third episode was poorly animated, poorly acted, and bizarrely animated.Shallow, poorly acted, predictable, and overly interested in being edgy.


                
Nice visuals and art, but everything else is just unbearable, do not watch if you are over the age of 18 or have a decent attention spam, is waay too edgy, and believes it is much more clever than it actually is


                
I want to echo the sentiment of a handful of reviewers here that this project gets respect for flash, but little for substance. By my episode 4 I had already come to the conclusion that this was just a modernized Heavy Metal, and then come to find out in the trivia section later that that's just exactly how this project was initially envisioned -- Heavy Metal 2.The problem is, in 1981, using animation to portray adult gore and sex was truly revolutionary. It was ground-breaking at a commercial scale, as only niche/basement shops were even trying it. But now you have to buy special software to keep that sort of content from literally falling out of the internet onto your screens. The plots are just as uber-simple and shallow, lean just as too far on gore and sex than is needed to tell a story, and any Twilight Zone or Outer Limits episode can hold it's own to any of these stories concept wise.It's great to see what animation teams and studios can do without Avatar budgets, don't get me wrong -- I'm happy to see the art form get a spotlight. But the producers forgot what decade they were in.


                
Almost all of the shorts are cgi showoffs with a pseudo deep story.
You can see the resemblance to black mitror without any thoughtfull storywriting.
For most episodes you could tell the whole story from the first minute including the twists its just so predictable.
It looks very good tho so 3 stars.


                
When I heard of the series and David Fincher on it I thought it sounded a bit like when, back in the 80's, Spielberg directed "Amazing Stories" (good director + fantasy + on TV)...but not remotely.
Even though the technical side of it all is surely "topnoch", the stories are mainly poor and repetitive: gratuitous violence and "dejà vú" aliens or fantasy creatures, all seasoned with some nudity here and there. It all has a flair of videogame animation that its certainly boring (apart from 3 or 4 episodes) and does not make any aproach to a more creative, crafty or contemporary animation or narrative which interpellates viewers to think and open their minds (and have fun doing so). I dont get how this is supposed to be meant for adult audiences with such lame scripts, really: Military Werewolves in Middle East?! (This particular one is embarassing..) Robot Monster Fights?! (Pokemon for adults I guess...) Farmers fighting aliens?! (Starship Troopers 2019)...creativity in pure state of downfall...
Great creators, animators, illustrators and storytellers are all around the web with more sensibilty, magic and a new approach to visual narrative and much better stories to tell and inspire (and make audiences think a bit or feel o fly with their imagination...)...Please look for them and hire!
A missed opportunity to give indie animation a space in a mainstream platform. Too bad.


                
Feels like rehash of 70s sci-fi, including tired jokes. Would have been a great opportunity to introduce some new and exciting stories. Would also guess that it's a very homogenous group who were writing, directing etc.


                
