As with most things in life, to each their own. Nonetheless I felt a bit compelled to provide a slightly different point of view from the stream of 10's I'm seeing on IMDb so far.I see a lot of "now this is Art!" comments. To be clear, film (even when shown on television) has been recognized as Art for generations now. Granted, this particular series is generally well executed and presents visuals that are often stunning and unique - but let's not trip over ourselves trying to hold up Love, Death & Robots as some breakthrough for the medium. And as gorgeous as it is, it's not without some really obvious flaws. The uncanny valley is still very deep with this series.In terms of substance, this was nothing short of painful to watch. Completely predictable plot, utterly shallow dialogue, heavy handed cliches and extremely clumsy in its execution. The "twists" could be seen a mile away, and then any subsequent counter-twist felt tacked on as "gotchas" even though they were often transparent themselves. And the jokes suffered the exact same fate. Everything about the script felt like a first draft attempt.There was also a strangely tone-deaf nature to much of the subject matter as well. The series sets up strong themes of empowerment, diversity and responsibility, only to explore those themes through extremely childish, macho narrative devices and stereotypes. It's an adolescent boy's attempt at writing about deeper issues without any greater understanding of them. Highly (and needlessly) sexualized (women only), brutally violent (because violence = power of course), and unimaginatively crass and crude (because curse words are "brutal, and "real"). I've seen some reviews actually decrying the themes as "SJW" - but interestingly, I think if you look even a tiny bit below the surface, it's more likely the opposite.Yes, I've never seen anything quite like Love, Death & Robots before, but I still find it empty all the same. Plenty to see, nothing to take away.


                
99% of the people who love this are young males that are into video games. if that's you ... congratulations you will love this. if not you probably won't.the episodes are mostly extremely violent. the show should be called death, violence and violent robots. people who are into video games will love this. the rest of us will not.i did enjoy the animation ... perhaps next time netflix can create an animated anthology for adults that is centered around sex, love & robots ... with no violence.


                
While the animations is quite lovely, most of the stories, with the exception of Lucky 13 and Alternate history, are tired takes on ideas that have been done many, many times before. If one is going to grab an idea and re-do it, at least add some originality. And at least have an ending, not just roll to a jarring stop. If there's a second season, do a little better in the writing.


                
The first episode is really good, so it's very disappointing to see all the others going downhill not only animation-wise but story-wise. There are good moments on the other episodes but overall just silly. Hope Black Mirror season 5 gets released soon instead of this childish adult show.


                
I can't imagine anyone over 16 watching the entire season and giving it more than a 6. No love (lot of sex though / Borderline porn). Death is here in form of carnage and mutilation. A few robots and a lot of already seen monsters. Should be called sex, carnage and a few robots. Very disappointed with the direction entertainment is going.


                
That is untill I for so incredibly tired if the trite female animated nudity and sexualization.
Some great stories and animation. Great quality but way too much anmited female bits for the BOYS living in the basement.
Sad we can't get past this kind of crap and just grow up.


                
Watching this anthology of shorts, some of which are very short indeed, feels a lot like reading an old Heavy Metal magazine. As a teenager, I used to devour these collections of science fiction, fantasy and horror stories that usually featured sex and nudity and frequently violence and gore, sometimes both on the same page.Netflix essentially created an animated version of these pulpy, yet often beautifully illustrated comic books. L, D & R is just as hit-and-miss, just as violent and sexually titillating (for a straight male audience, that is), and, every once in a while, just as artistically beautiful. I just wish it had something to say, or at least a few compelling stories to tell. It all felt a bit shallow and very derivative underneath the flashy exterior. I'm afraid sci-fi fans looking for truly original ideas will be rather disappointed.


                
No. Not even going to bother. Too much to complain about


                
Lazy writing, to simple and the sex and gore isn't adding anything. The taste of homor is also poor in my opinion.
But the technique they uses to make this is incredible. Its very neat and very smooth. But i have to give it a 4 because writing is one of the cores for a good film or serie but it isn't adding anything.


                
I loved every episode of this series and to me it came from nowhere. I dont know who wrote and directed any episode, but it was outstanding and original. I'm sad tha Hollywood has no new ideas when a few of these would make great films in the same style (sonnies edge, three robots, suits, beyond the Aquila rift and shape shifters) would all make amazing films as long as they kept the same feel and ideas. I hope they do more of these and they become available to buy in hard copy forms. Again, outstanding.


                
