Love, Death and Robots isn't for everyone. It's gratuitously violent, salacious to a fault, and not politically correct. And that's exactly what Hollywood needs to do more of. No, it doesn't need to make films that are violent, over-sexed or obscene (it's already doing that). It needs to stop making things 'for everybody.' LD&R is obviously going to offend or turn off some, but that's because it's not made for them. But for those who have been waiting for a true animated version of Heavy Metal Magazine, then this is for you. It's got cyberpunk, odd fiction, silly stories and all the sci-fi you could possibly want. What's more, each story is really well made (unlike some attempts to bring Heavy Metal to film). If you like short films, CG, sci-fi or Adult Swim, you're not going to want to miss Love, Death & Robots.


                
Not all the episodes are great, but most of them, for sure... I think it is a try-out for netflix, the best ones survive. Mayby a netflix Movie in the future!


                
I had no idea what to expect going into this, but was not disappointed. The first episode is amazing and I truely wish the show was based on that. However, it's a bunch of unrelated shorts which are all good in their own sense and this is a great show you can just throw on at any time because the episodes are all unrelated. I feel this will be like the old Nickelodeon series where they figure out which episode is most popular and make a series off of it. Atleast I hope that's the case because episode one was unbelievable


                
Overall an entertaining, visually fascinating anthology. Some really amazing action scenes, characters, and stories. The unique animation styles alone makes it worth checking out. Character development is not a major issue, they do a good job there with what little time each episode has. Most episodes do a good job with plot.Unfortunately, the series does contain biased political messages, amateur writing/dialogue, and "forced" adult material. For some moments, it seemed like the creators relied solely on sex and violence to distract the viewers from how sub-par everything else was about the episode. In other words, the "adult" content was a hit and miss.One thing for sure, each episode is completely different; animation styles, themes, stories, characters, plots, emotions, are never replicated. Really the only element all episodes share, is the genre of Science Fiction. It's a fantastic start to an animated anthology series, and let's hope that not only we get more seasons after this, but it continues to get better, as there is room for improvement.Episodic review:1st episode (Sonnie's Edge): Amazing animation, cool creatures, a sweet creature fight, engaging story with an awesome ending. Heavy misandristic/feminism vibes, however. Aside from that, one can tell a lot of heart, thought, and work went into this short. Good one to start the season, and the series with. 8/10
Main genres/tone: Sci-Fi/Action/Drama, serious
Mature content: violence, blood/gore, profanity, and nudity.2nd episode (Three Robots): Way too political to enjoy. Anti-theistic, anti-human, there were some good jokes and funny moments, but some flat ones too. Would be a good episode, if it weren't for all the subtle/unsubtle far-left messages and forgettable jokes. 3/10
Main genres/tone: Sci-Fi/Comedy, humorous
Mature content: profanity3rd episode (The Witness): Reminds me of an ultra-violent eye-rape anime called "Dead Leaves," only with a serious tone instead of a humorous one. Plot is engaging at first with good potential, but ends up being too stylized, confusing and conceited, with over-the-top nudity. Even the flashy, exotic animation couldn't save this one. Fun visuals, pass on almost everything else. 4/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Action/Thriller, upbeat & serious
Mature content: violence, blood, profanity, and nudity.4th episode (Suits): Weak writing, and the animation comes off as "rushed." Still, a likable episode. Love the Half-Life 2 crab-like creatures. 6.5/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Action, lightly serious with bits of humor
Mature content: violence, blood, profanity5th episode (Sucker of Souls): The animation style seems to be a tribute to violent 90's anime. Cool story, witty well-placed humor, with twisted horror elements makes this one so far one of the best, especially for horror fans. Especially enjoyed the new spin on an old, familiar horror villain icon, and the element of kitties. Makes up for the trite, cats-are-evil concept that a certain earlier episode embraced. Only complaints are with the ending: not much resolve, and it reveals a plot hole or two. 8.5/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Horror/Action/Comedy/Fantasy, balanced mix of horror & comedy
Mature content: heavy violence, blood/gore, profanity, light nudity.6th Episode (When The Yogurt Took Over): This narrated short has animation similar to Pixar, starts off interesting enough, but just ends on a question mark. With more time to establish a structured plot, it may be a sufficient enough ending, but this one just leaves audiences scratching their heads. A bit humorous and silly, mostly just bland. 5/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Comedy/Drama, comedy & potential satire
Mature content: some cartoony nudity & brief violence7th episode (Beyond the Aquila Rift): One of the most impressive and realistic animation styles, it's a lot like a lot of popular sci-fi mind-bending thrillers all shoved into a few minutes. Keeps audiences guessing until the end...a very creepy, unsettling, gnarly end. It's like if the characters in the game series "Mass Effect" had an "oopsie" during a mass relay. Super cool short. 9/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Drama/Thriller, serious
Mature Content: Light violence, moderate language, nudity & sex, some disturbing imagery8th episode (Good Hunting): With an animation style very similar to "The Iron Giant," this episode dives into Japanese mythology, while mixing together the industrial revolution and robotics, with a sort of steam-punk feel. This gets my vote as saddest episode, as the story between the son of a spirit hunter forms a bond with a shapeshifting magical girl. It's a story of loss, protection, revenge, love, and coping with change. Wonderfully animated, emotional tale. Yet again though, almost ruined by unnecessary and distracting nudity. 8/10
Main genres/tones: Sci-Fi/Drama/Fantasy, serious
Mature Content: Some profanity, moderate violence & blood, heavy nudity (male & female)more to come


                
Not every episode hits the mark but most do. Some have a blade runneresque feel Exceptional animated detail and exciting stories.I have read negative comments like the Wired review but I think they are bringing their own preconcieved biases unfortunately.Weird and wonderful.


                
I enjoyed this series a lot. The animation is fantastic, the stories interesting and I'm a sucker for Sci fi so it ticked a load of boxes for me.For the most part it's an enjoyable experiment that reminded me of reading my dad's old 70's short story collections. When one story underwhelms you it doesn't matter because its short and there's another one coming up.The issues I have with it are something Sci fi has struggled with forever. The characters come across as if they're written by a teenage boy. They're all tough and fight regardless of the consequences, they use swear words, they're just so cool! Only the issue is they're not. They're outdated clichés and I'm bored silly if them.Also most female characters seem to exist as tools to men or convenient breasts. Granted the helping hand story didn't do that (one of the stronger episodes) but she was tough and swore a lot.To summarize this is great stuff. Talented animators create interesting worlds (Good huntings Hong Kong was great) that grip me to the screen wondering what the next one will be. Its just let down a little bit by its sometimes weak cliche characters.Sci fi can really prosper in animated form and I look forward to another series.


                
Very mature and enjoyable shorts. It's like the shorts at the beginning of Disney movies except R rated. It somehow draws you in and gives you an amazing story in less than 30 minutes. Highly recommend.


                
There is some extremely high quality animation here, among some very off-putting ones. Overall I'm excited in the direction it's going, but I'm hoping they'll move forward with stronger story, and less of the flagrant sexism and violence for violence's sake.How I feel they ranked:Zima Blue - A gem and by far the best one of the bunch
Suits - Nice and simple and fun to watch
Beyond the Aquila Rift - Animation is borderline uncanny valley, but it genuinely terrified me
Three Robots
Helping Hand
Lucky 13 - Succeeded in giving character to an inanimate object, but mostly because the uncanny valley humans feel like moving wax figures
The Secret War
The Dump
Alternate Histories
When the Yogurt Took Over - Cute animation but kind of a strange story
Good Hunting - Started off very interesting, but feels disjointed with the sudden shift in tone in the second half plus very uncomfortable sexual tone. I hate that I couldn't love it more, or this could be second after Zima Blue.
Sucker of Souls
Sonnie's Edge - exciting visuals and nice monster design, but rape is definitely exploited as a plot device
Ice Age - Nothing we haven't seen before, but it was poignant
The Witness - stellar animation but a major letdown in terms of story
Blindspot
Sucker of Souls
Fish Night - Liked it up until the ending. Why does everything have to be so dark? But hey, I guess 'Death' is in the title so I should have expected it.
Shapeshifters - Interesting concept but would have been much better with a different style of animation (as could be said for several others)
The stories are unique each episode, the animation alternates, and the episodes are short and fast paced. I found the content different and enjoyable. There isn't much adult content like this on Netflix, but I hope they add more.


                
The Animations are just awesome........ Netflix comes out with something fabulous all the time! Just like black mirror no two episodes are inter linked or have any continuity with each other.
Gore scenes and Nudity are sort of a given, and due to it's very short duration (7-14 minutes max) every episode feels like a movie climax scene.....
Few episodes weren't actually as good as others but from 10th episode it went crazy
Literally loved it...
Binge watch it (Recommended)
I would give this a rating of 8.5/10


                
Loved it, watched all episodes in one sitting, the stories and animation styles are in the same vein as a favourite movie of mine from long ago...Heavy Metal.


                
If every woke series/movie was done like this i would not have so much problems with them.
Entertaining to the last, dark, brutal, honest! Quite the show, did not expect it to be this good.


                
Wild ride of stories, each one unexpected. Beautiful visuals too. Want to see more like this.. maybe even a series or movie about Sonnie's Edge or 3 Robots


                
Um 1st ep wasnt that bad, i enjoyed it. But there are a couple of episodes like Fish Night which i would rate -1 if imdb premitted something like thay. There are a couple extraordinary episodes either with some twist or the message it sends to audience. But there are some episodes that are so lousy and pointless that I as agnostic, i thank the god that ep doesnt last long. Ok animation was really well done and music, sound effects were brillian.. Ill give it 8. But i feel like it deserves 7.


                
I have enjoyed every episode in this anthology series. Some more than others. Some made me laugh. Some made me squirm. If you are a fan of adult Sci-Fi (and in some cases I mean ADULT) then definitely give it a shot. The average episode is no longer than 15 minutes, so it won't take up too much of your time.


                
I love one episode having no correlation to next allowing for so much creativity. Using different animation from episode to episode to match the tone of the story is awesome. The length of the episodes isn't a problem either but I went through the show in one sitting. If the episodes are so short they could've made a few more or simply added a little more character building in some episodes. Regardless I love watching and look forward to more.


                
Anthology series, I liked it. Some were good, some were not so good, some bordered on great. But I have never seen so many animated penises in my life. Neither have you. Take that for what it's worth.
Finally got some time to watch the season. Overall it is fun to watch most of the episodes with gorgeous animation and story twists. I would love to see episode 7,8 and 18 turn into a full movie. On the other hand episode 13's story is so lacking that I tried to fast forward although it is only 13 minutes.


                
Best animation to date, love every story. Just the right amount of mature visual. Would recommend for every fan of mangas and comics.


                
While the individual episodes are quite good, I will make a guarantee to netflix that if you keep making science fiction/fantasy short films I will always watch them.


                
A rich collection of short movies thematically sharing some commonalities and as a whole sharing amazing production value and somewhat interesting storytelling. All the episode are almost completely computer animated and the art is absolutely gorgeous and spellbinding. The colors are beautiful, the animation outstanding. And while some may fall short depending on ones preferences, it's hard to argue anyone would dislike all of them. Whether you like space, robots, monsters or crazy and mind-bending narratives, you will probably find something interesting. Some episodes are truly great but in general the quality and fantasy hits some peaks and lows with a few episodes of just pure action which, while still incredibly well produced, don't really provide the engaging narratives found in some others.
Overall it's a brilliant series. Technically marvelous. Definitely recommandable and easily digestible, being that most episodes don't hit the 15 minutes mark.


                
This is a great anthology series, partly because the episodes are so short and digestible, and mostly because the animation is so astounding.
Every episode has a different art style, and some of the hyper realistic ones are almost indistinguishable from reality. I would say the show is worth the watch even if you just appreciate art and want to watch some in motion.However, just because you have a great aspect; does not mean you can skimp on the rest of what makes a show good. I think many episodes in this series truly skimped on story, with inconclusive, abrupt endings that just didn't feel right. Some episodes had no story whatsoever, which was supplemented with comedy sometimes, but other times I felt like my time was almost wasted.Considering the art style alone is enough to spend 10 minutes, even the less eventful episodes were not a total lose.The kind of show you should watch alone and just appreciate it, you will identify with different episodes than I did, and the show covers a pretty wide spectrum of themes and genres. Recommend the watch, but for the more simple watchers or story lovers, this may miss the mark.


                
If you love animation as I do then this is most defiantly a must must must see. Up to this point I had always preferred the Japanese' (specifically "Studio Ghibli") as my "Go Too" animation and the ones to watch. This Netflix collection has a wide range of stiles and Im sure will meet everyone's taste. You will never watch badly drawn cartoons (South park, Simpsons etc...) again.


                
Have you ever taken a bite of something, found it yummy and reached for another only to find the plate disappointingly empty?
That pretty much sums up my experience with LD+R.I managed to watch the entire 3 hour run time of this incredible new series in a single sitting, and some of the episodes I even watched twice.While visually amazing with promises of intriguing storylines, much of the writing was rather lacklustre to be honest and as a sci-fi reader I found soem stories to be too predictable.Although, trying to think of a suitable analogy, all I could come up with is something from Harry Potter...It's like Berty's All Flavoured Beans were turned into a Sci Fi animation series: Every episode has its own flavour and everyone will find at least one bean, I mean episode, that will capture their heart or imagination. But in there are just enough soap, slug and snot flavoured beans to make you think before chowing down.I can't put my finger on it, but I guess I loved the idea of the series more than the actual shows themselves. Weird, isn't it?---Personal Ranking of the top eps.Zima Blue
The Witness
Three Robots
Lucky 13The rest left me kinda all mehed out.


                
Sonnie's Edge - Decent fights, "edgy"Three Robots - Humorous mankind observationsThe Witness - Nifty despite pubesSuits - Probably best charactersSucker of Souls - Nosferatu gone wildWhen the Yoghurt Took Over - Delightfully weird humorBeyond the Aquila Rift - Makes ya thinkGood Hunting - WTF (Why the fursh*t?)The Dump - Nasty yet wholesomeShape-Shifters - Some gruesome battlesHelping Hand - Better than BullockFish Night - Beautiful yet nightmarishLucky 13 - Barely remember itZima Blue - ACTUALLY AMAZING, WOW!Blindspot - I had funIce Age - The funniest oneAlternate Histories - Yeah, I giggledSecret War - Would play gameSeriously, though, this is one of the most varied (in terms of content and genre, just as well as quality) and unpredictable shows on the planet, let alone Netflix. Definitely watch it.


                
