Never saw the trailer. Just saw it while browsing netflix, didn't knew what to expect. But the first episode just blew my mind. So awesome. It was like watching watching a video game. The episodes are small but so good. No nonsense. Superb !!!


                
Love, Death & Robots is an anthology of animated science-fiction shorts. A few stories use live actors but heavy use of animation in the whole. Most of the animation is CG-- some might be hand-drawn or might be really well stylized CG, I'm not sure.The animation itself is stunning. This is next-gen. There are a wide variety of styles on display, but it's all great, as good as anything I've ever seen, and that's including the old masters. I mess about with 3D modelling, and the CG stuff is really breathtaking in the detail and in the bridge between style and realism. These are people who know their art.The stories themselves are very, very similar to those that you'd find in the old days in Heavy Metal-- the movie or the magazine. That means gratuitous sex, gratuitous violence; it means a certain aesthetic, focused on science-fiction-cool; it means cleverness, occasional humor, and plenty of weirdness. I wouldn't have expected good stories from a movie like this, yet LDR mostly delivers on that front: its narratives are well paced and enjoyable.Maybe its main weakness-- assuming gratuitous sex and violence doesn't turn you off- is its character writing. The characters may be modelled and animated nearly perfectly, but as characters they're still pretty two-dimensional. But I'm not sure how much anyone could expect from an anthology series on this front, and poor characterization is pretty much the rule in this genre.If you're a fan of science fiction or animation, and the sex and violence doesn't turn you off-- really, it's just there for its own sake, although some of us think that's fine-- then I think LDR will blow you away.


                
Anyone who grew up in the 90's should remember liquid Television. It gave us the original Aeon Flux and the first real HD animation. This is very reminiscent. The animation is great and even when it is not, it still fits the style. It should also be said that MTV Liquid Television was rated TV-14, this is very much deserving of its TV-MA rating.


                
This show is absolutely bonkers with violence, explicit scenes, and episodes. From minds of Tim Miller and David Fincher made a show with great animation of a mix with Twilight Zone and Black Mirror story telling. Buckle up for a wild ride!


                
Review for novastreamnetwork.comLove, Death & Robots is an artistically well written anthology series. Its 18 episodes are all influenced by animation and is probably the most exciting series released on Netflix in a very long time. The series is very NSFW with the amount of nudity and cursing in almost every episode. But the animation in every single one of these stories is unique in its own way. The short stories are easy to get through as they fly by and you'll wish it was a feature film.18 episodes, 18 short films, all under 20 minutes runtime. They're all science fiction based, and David Fincher (Gone Girl) is the executive producer of this series. The idea came from none other than creator Tim Miller (Deadpool). Some of the shorts are based on literature, some are completely original stories being told in their own extraordinary way. They all have a different theme, a certain twist to them that leaves you begging for more and their own style of writing that makes every episode unpredictable. Most of these "mini-movies" will make you think about things in a different way and truly blow you away. And yes, not every story will be your taste, but in my case, there were only two of them that didn't compel me in any way. Some of the more endearing, longer episodes could easily be turned into blockbusters - the quality is just spectacular.Whichever one will be your favourite, truly depends on your own personal taste. There's some very realistic animation in a few of them that makes you question if these are real actors on screen (there's only one episode that actually uses real life actors without any mocap) or computer-generated images. Some other styles reminded me more of a European animated style and even manga passes by.Like I said before, there's a lot of nudity and swearing, and in some of the episodes it feels a little bit out of place. Mostly because of the animation style that feels more "kid-friendly" - don't get me wrong, this show is strictly for adults only! But other than that, in some episodes it really adds to the whole of the story.A reoccurring theme is obviously the titular three - Love, Death and Robots. These three themes will either go hand in hand with each other and other times you'll only see one of these incorporated into the story. It all depends on the subject. Ideas around humanity's future, our own demise and the relationship we have with space and other species is explored over and over again. It never feels preachy throughout the series and makes you laugh, feel sad or truly terrify you.Each and every animator that has worked on this is talented and has their own vision on how to tell a story with their certain technique of animation. The beautify of this anthology series is that there's going to be something for everyone.Top 3 episodes:Episode 1 - Sonnie's Edge: In the underground world of "beastie" fights, Sonnie is unbeatable - as long as she keeps her edge.
Episode 14 - Zima Blue: The renowned artist Zima recounts his mysterious past and rise to fame before unveiling his final work.
Episode 2 - Three Robots: Long after the fall of humanity, three robots embark on a sightseeing tour of a post-apocalyptic city.Bottom 3 episodes:Episode 8 - Good Hunting: The son of a spirit hunter forges a bond with a shape-shifting huli jing.
Episode 13 - Lucky 13: After the drop-ship Lucky 13 lost two crews, no pilot would fly her... but rookies don't get a choice.
Episode 18 - Secret War: Elite units of the Red Army fight an unholy evil deep in the ancient forests of Siberia.Love, Death & Robots is one of the most unusually artistic shows of the year. Don't miss out on watching this ASAP!Love, Death & Robots is available to stream on Netflix.


                
Been waiting this mature style of japanimatiion like films forever to hit the US...this series is a homerun with a edge only also found in Black Mirror and Phillip Dick's series.


                
If you like Black Mirror.. Well.. You'll love this. Love, Death & Robots is a series of short films with completely different backstories and design. It's hard to describe the series as anything else than a masterpiece. Most of the episodes looks like a cinematic scene/clip from a video game - we're talking Blizzard Entertainment level folks. I freaking love it! I need more.


                
The visuals, the music, the story, cyberpunk. It's all amazing!


                
I saw a trailer for this series a few weeks ago and didn't think about it much afterwards, then I was reading about this show on imdb and noticed David Fincher was involved, that's when I started to pay attention,
So now I have seen 11 episodes so far I have to write a review or say something about it, I was a little skeptical after the first episode but then after episode 2 I was hooked, this is a masterpiece pure and simple, some excellent quality stories and each episode's animation is differant, from computerised animation to anime and then to good old fashioned animation, then back to animation I've never seen before, i highly recommend watching this show even if you don't normally watch animation, it's all about the stories, my personal favorite so far would be between suits ep 4, sucker of souls ep 5 but good hunting is an awsome episode too, I have to say that SUITS reminded me of Firefly the joss whedon cancelled way before its time show, I don't know why but it reminded me of that show, from the first 5 minutes I just thought firefly.? Do yerself a favour and watch this series, BRAVO NETFLIX keep on keeping on.


                
Based on the limited marketing that had leeched into my infosphere, I had semi-consciously written off Robots as yet another low-sheen manga snoozefest. Yesterday I pushed past my ingrained resistance and actually clicked on the title. What I saw there caught my attention, something which I was not in the slightest expecting. Seeing that my total commitment to an initial taste-test would be in the range of 10 minutes, I decided to take the plunge.Wow! I was instantly immersed in a compelling 3D world that evoked some of my favourite sci-fi imagery and ideas, with a satisfying, elegant narrative wrapped in gorgeous visuals made with exceptional love and stellar production values. Robots is deeply engaging, delivering innovative and playful twists on familiar sci-fi tropes, cutting new and interesting ground in hybrid animation and visual style. What a reminder, yet again, to never make assumptions about a Netflix-ordered production. Whilst not every episode was to my taste, the great majority were awesomely good, and I had to restrain myself to leave at least a few episode-morsels to savour at a later time. Props, Netflix & co for plastering a silly, satisfied grin on my face.


                
An exceptionally well crafted series with gorgeous animation and a uniquely immersive soundtrack, whats remarkable about these shorts is how quickly you can become so deeply and emotionally invested in the stories they are telling. Every character feels alive and real, human or otherwise, and each brilliantly executed scenario subverts the expectations set by its predecessor; I would watch entire ten hour seasons set in any one of them, though perhaps what most makes them shine is in fact how quickly they're over, and how lasting of an impression they leave all the same.


                
Amazing ! With a few exception episodes, everything was triple AAA


                
In most movies/TV series, they have 1-2 great ideas but try to make 8-12 episodes with 4-5 seasons or make a 2 hour boring movie with 20 min great story. However, I was really happily surprised.The season 1 has 18 episodes with mostly sci-fi and sometimes drama or somewhat dystopic themes and each episode is 5-10 min short but really well to the point. I was better touched in most episodes of season 1 than what other sci-fi or drama artworks try to embrace and bore in 2 hours.Additionally, in most artworks, we see 1-2 great episodes (1-2 great parts in those 1-2 episodes). However, all the episodes have been unique and great.Since episodes are really short, we cannot talk much about the characters but I could still feel for the characters because the emotions were well portrayed and mostly sad but there are happy endings, too . I was especally amazed by episode 7, 8, 14. I anticipated most of the endings but this also shows how well the episodes has been prepared.Also, the episodes are not with the same visual techniques each different technique is also well suited for the contents of the episode.Finally, I want to thank everyone who made me watch this great show.PS: Most episodes also somewhat reminded me of Black Mirror by putting a mirror to us/humans.


                
This has set itself as this generation's Heavy Metal, though it is probably even better, in my opinion. The writing is outstanding, with each episode having its own unique feel and theme. The CG is absolutely amazing. What they produced is even better than Alita.I really hope this is Tim Miller's way of getting more movement on the Neuromancer film. If this is a preview of what he could do with that source material, I cannot wait.If you like original ideas, just sit and enjoy this one...just not with your kids or parents.


                
Love - check.
Death - bloody check.
Robots - BIG METAL CHECK.
Absolutely recommend it. I'm surprised how VFX gone far.


                
I was browsing through Netflix and spotted this title. It mentioned robots and I like those so I thought, "why not?" And I am so very glad I did! It was not what I was expecting at all.Comparisons to The Animatrix are well rounded and, after watching a few of the animations, it was exactly what came to my mind as well. Another film it brought to my mind was "The ABC's of Death" as it shared the same kind of genre hopping content, even though ABCoD was purely a horror film.Each episode is a short story lasting around 15-20 minutes on average. They cross a number of genres from sci-fi to comedy and straight up horror. All are strikingly animated and, at times, the animation is so good that it's easy to forget you're not actually looking at flesh and blood people. I think there were actually only a couple of stories where I didn't like the animation, but this was more down to my personal taste i think.The stories themselves are well written and there isn't really a weak one in the bunch. Again, there were a couple which I didn't enjoy as much which was more about my own likes and dislikes than anything they did wrong but, the great thing about an anthology, is you don't have to wait very long for another one to come along.A quick word about the 18 rating. It absolutely deserves that classification as the violence can be quite startling at times in how graphic it can be. Similarly, when you get to the SEX part of the title, this series pulls no punches whatsoever, as it is just as graphic as the violence i.e. it doesn't why away from detail! So, not the kind of cartoon you can settle your kids down in front of. Likewise, don't sit down to watch it with your nan, because explaining exactly what's going on may prove to be rather uncomfortable (unless your nan is very broadminded.)ISo, recommended? Absolutely, just make sure your kids and elderly relatives are well out of harms way!


                
It's been a while since I sat staring at the screen in awe after watching a series or movie on Netflix (or TV for that matter). I did when I watched the first few episodes of Love, Death & Robots on Netflix. A nice plot twist, that was also well executed made me say "Wow!" out loud.The plots are nice and good in almost all of these short stories. The art style is suburb and direction and cutting is top notch. I like the voice acting and the way characters are displayed and developed, even in the short time the individual series have (10 to 15 minutes).The only negative, perhaps, is the amount of gore. Sometimes this is a tad too much for my taste, but after the first few episodes I knew what to expect. But it's still something to be prepared for if you start watching these.Recommended!


                
The first episode was amazing, they should do a whole series based on that chapter...
One of the best Netflix series...


                
Love, Death & Robots is deep, artistic, well written and influential 18 short stories. The series can be perceived as 18 pilots for new series. Of course, few episodes fall flat, but there is something for every taste. The gathering of that number of incredibly talented animators and writers and showcasing them in such an intense production is a bold, daring, and game changing move by Netflix.


                
If you really love series like Black Mirror, then this is the one for you. Keeps you at the edge of the seat just with 10-15 minute stories.
The best part about the series is the making and editing of each episode which is just spectacular in every way. The violence really terrifies you sometimes.
But hey.. Don't expect to see the typical movie elements like - introduction of characters followed by story elevation and then finally a climax. You don't see all of that in here.. Just enjoy those 10-15 minutes without looking for meaning.. The best episode for me is "Sonnie's Edge". Looking forward to see a few more episodes.


                
Loved it! All i can see, it made me feel like how i do with Black Mirror episodes! I wish they were slightly longer, and more of them! Loved the different styles of animation and story lines! watched all of these in one go! Can't wait for the next season!


                
Normally I'm not into anim or animated stuff or over violent content, but I saw an episode was just 12 minutes or so, so I gave it a go when I was a bit bored. And what a pleasant surprise it was! Because the episodes are so short, there is no filler at all and they just leave you wanting more after each story. From science fiction to comedy to thriller, it just keeps hopping genres, which is also what keeps it so fresh. I just which there were more episodes, absolutely brilliant!


                
You definitely need to watch. everything is perfect...


                
I think that this series of Netflix based on .. What If Secenario ...
one thing for sure is ... I Want More .....


                
Some of the animation here is on another level. Episode 3 is just utterly sublime, I just am blown away. We are witnessing the next generation of entertainment. To all to were party to this, we're just in awe. Go for it!


                
