It is completely beyond my understanding how anyone on Earth may enjoy this lengthy, pathetic, boring and completely dull TV series. I like The Simpsons, Futurama, Black Adder, IT Crowd, The South Park, I can survive even pretty brutal humor of Postal: The Movie. I do not understand, however, how anyone can create TV show based ONLY on pretty primitive embarrassing situations. It is not funny, it is just completely dull. One embarrassing scene after another without relief. I had not a single laugh, maybe two or three smiles during the series. This is pretty pathetic result for "comedy" show I can say. I think high evaluation of this series probably says nothing about the quality of this TV series but probably something more about quality of jobs of people who find this horror somewhat amusing. If this is true I can only say: RUN OUT FROM YOUR OFFICE AND FIND OTHER JOB IMMEDIATELY! I would not survive a single day in this environment unless completely I would be absolutely starving.


                
Cashing in on the reality TV mockumentaries that appeared at the turn of the century, the office is a poor attempt at satire. The whole show is written by the remarkably over rated ricky gervais, a failed pop star from the 1980's. Having being forced by my house mates to watch most of the episodes, i can honestly say that i did not laugh once. It just made me cringe. The most obvious mistake the writers made was to base the show on just one joke. That joke is David Brent, a badly thought out character with no real depth or any truly satirical qualities. When watching this abomination, you have this nagging concern about whether the character is meant to be a satire, or a this is a poor attempt at method acting. I thin k I speak for all humans capable of real thought when i say that ricky gervais should stop making programs and disappear into the annuls of failed entertainment and take the office with him.
The successful American series Ally McBeal was set in an office, so I have little doubt that this was a BBC effort to create a British Ally McBeal. This British Ally McBeal is nowhere near so well written as its American counterpart, and, even if it were, it does not have performers with the ability to make it work anyway.There have been a few British sitcoms set in offices over the years. None of them have been particularly good, and "The Office" is no exception.What is worrying from my point of view is that the TV critics - the same ones that failed to gather the essence of Ally McBeal - are ecstatic about "The Office." It is supposed to be funny and Ricky Gervais - like Orson Wells - is a "genius." Well the touchstone of a comedy is, does it make me laugh? Well, no. Not once. Not so much as a smile. I am sure there are people out there who must like this. But I have asked lots of people about this programme. At the time of writing, I have not met anyone who likes "The Office" or who finds it remotely funny.And it wins acclaim, awards and accolades. There's something funny going on.


                
Take World War I & II, take The Chernobyl Disaster, take the 9/11. In fact, take all of these horrifying world events, put them all together and you still haven't got anything as bad as 'The Office'.David Brent is the general manager of Wernham Hogg paper merchants in Slough. He is also a charmless nurk whose ego is so inflated its a wonder he hasn't floated away. He believes himself to be something of a big fish but in reality is nothing more than a little shrimp. It was almost like Guy Jenkin and Andy Hamilton's 'Drop The Dead Donkey', minus the jokes.'The Office' has been regarded by some people I know as 'the thinking man's comedy'. Er, why exactly? There is not a great deal to think about. The main character is a braggart and a bully. Some people have also likened Brent to Gordon Brittas from 'The Brittas Empire'. Both characters may be horrible creations but Chris Barrie brought something to the role of Brittas which made him partly likable. Brent had no redeeming features whatsoever. You just wanted to give him a good hiding.Ricky Gervais is one of the unfunniest men on the planet. Not as bad as Frankie Boyle or Keith Lemon, but not by much. If there were any funny moments in the show at all, then they were well hidden. I didn't even so much as crack a smile once.Gervais' next sitcom for the BBC was 'Extras' which, although not as bad as 'The Office', was still fairly dire. More recently he has given us 'Derek' and 'Life's Too Short', neither of which were remotely funny either.
Ricky Gervais is clearly a genius - a man who is not remotely funny, but is making a fortune from being a comedian.I tried watching this and soon gave up out of sheer boredom. I'm astounded at the amount of good reviews this got, the David Brent character is boring, this show altogether is boring.This does not qualify as comedy. Do yourself a favour and avoid like the plague. There are loads of genuine comedy shows out there.


                
