This review contains spoilers...Hollywoodization is a term used to describe the changing of factual events in order to make them more marketable to the masses, like changing the events, throwing in a love interest and always removing hard questions.In Hotel Rwanda's case, the hollywoodization occurred within this movie, when the theme of genocide was decided to be played down in order to appeal to a wider audience of moviegoers, this is ultimately the films demise.Don Cheadle gives an incredibly Oscar worthy performance in what would otherwise be a mediocre film that had the potential to be the next "Schindlers List" but failed. Cheadle plays a hotel manager and a good family man caught up in the events leading to and ultimately transpiring during the Rwandan genocide in 1993.The majority of the film takes place with Paul (Cheadle) and his family refugees inside the Hotel Paul is the manager of. The actual genocide that is the main plot device of the movie is given very brief screen time and the majority of the scenes dealing with it, is the aftermath of it.Joaquin Phoenix's character, a journalist does give us a quick look at a very distant and out of context shot of two Rwandan's murdering a young girl, but Joaquin Phoenix has very little screen time and as quickly as he came into the film, he is almost quicker out of it leaving Cheadle to occupy the screen on his own.However, Cheadle has his family with him, most notably his wife, Sophie Okonedo who is the epitome of the word "melodrama", her prescence is one of many anchors to the film and she could have done with much less screen time as she only brings Cheadle down in the scenes she shares with him. Her emotions jump backwards and forwards in all of her scenes, it's as if she suffers from Bipolar disorder, having just witnessed a massacre outside of the hotel she is outraged and crying, then seconds later is laughing and enjoying a drink with her husband who is trying to romance her, talk about inappropriate, it's as if there is no genocide occurring outside of the Hotel, and for all the film portrays, there is not.The next biggest flaw with the film was the decision to cast Nick Nolte, who is in my opinion a good actor, as long as he is playing himself (such as he was in Affliction), but this time he isn't playing himself, he is playing a composite of General Romeo Dallaire named Colonel Oliver, who has NONE of Dallaire's qualities as a human being. Nolte drags on with his dialogue and it is my opinion that he was most likely intoxicated while filming took place, he looks confused, tired and hung over the entire film, not exactly military material. He bumbles, is incompetent and gets drunk on duty, is this the film makers idea to make Cheadle a more effective hero? By disqualifying everyone else of the role? In 1993, 800,000 souls were murdered and millions of others died as refugees and instead of showing this and letting the world know, we see Paul and his wife enjoying cocktails with Colonel Oliver, while their countrymen are being murdered just outside their doors.A mediocre film that suffered from hollywoodization, for an actually emotional film that deals with the tragedies in Rwanda, I would suggest seeing "Shake Hands With the Devil", a film that does not suffer from hollywoodization and will leave you questioning humanity.Cheadle was good, the rest of the movie was not.6/10
I was conflicted for about two seconds before deciding to give a film like this a bad review, a film that I really am a minority in since it was widely praised and reached by some miraculous flight to number 62 in the IMDb top 250. It's just a shameless and grueling piece of film-making, and I can't help but feel disgusted that the Rwandan genocide has been reduced and distilled by Hollywood into this. The injustice is overbearing. As someone who was in lower Manhattan on 9/11, I resented Oliver Stone for making his swan song 'World Trade Center', another hand wringing piece of garbage that was so disconnected from the reality of the event it was laughable, which is terrible because the last thing you want is to see such an inaccurate reflection of events to where you are forced by the director to sneer and feel uncomfortable at a film about it. Believe me, people, there were no violins playing in Rwanda while this was going on. I appreciate how people are waking up to genocide and injustice in Africa and how Don Cheadle has taken his research from this film and gone on to bring tremendous public awareness to places like Sudan, but that is all I can give this.For one, it does nothing to speak of the actual problems that led to the genocide in the first place, leaving an audience that might not know about the lead up to this story (and I do think the target audience for this film has no idea where Rwanda is on a map) to come to the conclusion that there is such thing as 'faceless evil', as arbitrary as some of the worst crimes humanity has ever encountered are, things aren't this simple, black-white, right-wrong. I think this kind of mentality has led the way for Bush's statements on 'good and evil' and 'evildoers' to be taken at face value, without questioning the social, political, religious, or moral conflicts that might have led to an act of genocide like this, or an act like September 11. I suggest instead of watching this film and thinking you have learned something about history, you pick up a book like 'The Graves are Not Yet Full' to understand the complex dynamics in Africa, dynamics that have led to generations being wiped out by ethnic cleansing and tribal conflict. I worry that a film like this closes out on a still ongoing argument, leaving the viewer with a feeling that even in the face of humanity's most vile action, 'everything will be okay' with people like Paul Rusesabagina around. This simply is not true. This film made me viscerally angry. This wasn't simply a 'bad movie', I feel like it stepped over a personal boundary, my own human boundary and insulted me, and literally millions of other people that have to endure life's struggle as it's given to them. I watch this and I feel ashamed to only have to endure the hour and a half of this film, and that is the stark low point of my day. I feel ashamed to even afford a ticket to waste on this movie. It's watered down, inaccurate film-making at it's most manipulative point, and that is what makes me angry, not to mention Don Cheadle's embarrassing attempt to 'be African' while driving in carefully placed advertisements for Volkswagon. Really he is a just sheltered like the rest of us, a Hollywood movie star sucking in fat paychecks while there is real, not dramatized, suffering in the world just adds to the pain of watching the film. I saw 'Sometimes in April' recently and found this to be much more believable and affecting a film, I would recommend this well above 'Hotel Rwanda'. The realities are still out there, this is fantasy. I know this is harsh, but this film insults my intelligence as a film-goer and as a human being.
One can rate movies according to what they bring of "newness" to our horizons. For me this movie hasn't added anything and i can only say that to the people this movie was a "widening" of some sort, then you must have been asleep before you saw it. The first objective criticism i have to make is that once you have visited Africa you cannot relate to the images in Hotel Rwanda. We see the movie as if we are in a western suburban area and that, i might say, as nothing to do with the feel of Africa. Throughout the film we seem to be taken through a somewhat digestible version of scenarios for western bourgeois audience.Sure enough that the film is talking about a sensitive issue and how the circumstances enforce heroic acts on the part of the main character. But if we go a bit deeper into the portrayal of Rwanda's reality then we find this film has no specific content other than the poor commercialization of conflict, and i would say that's mediatic malady. I'm sure Tutsi survivors may have praised the film as something important. But talking in cinematic terms this film is a hoax. The horror of Rwanda is much more darker on the whole of humanity than this film can show. One would have to film constant panic to get a bit closer.It's not Hollywood made but it is still the same formula. In my opinion: don't watch it! It has the stink of culpabilization on it. I'm sorry for writing such a bad review but i'm just being honest.


                
Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot... genocides under their rule are what we consider the biggest crimes in history. but just 10 years ago there was another one...almost one million people were slaughtered in rwanda. all nations worldwide were watching. no one did intervene. this setting is shown in this movie where we see a lot of brave people, a lot of good people, who are so full of altruism one believes them to be angels. they go through a hard time and in the end everybody is happy. we have a nice score. we have a be reunion in the end. everybody is happy. we can leave the cinema with a warm feeling, isn't that great.but wait...what about the real 900.000 people killed. what about the nations of the world just watching? oops someone seemed to have forgotten about them. how can you make a movie about the times of civil war in rwanda and just show good people. how can you create a classic Hollywood movie with this theme? thats more cynicism than i can bare. have we come this far, that we enjoy a genocide as background for a nice evenings entertainment. i found it very hard to watch this movie, because i was just disgusted.
This is the worst movie that I have ever watched. Certainly it is meant to portray a message that Hutus are nothing but murderers something which is stupid. Someone use your brain and know that the killings were two-way traffic.I suggest that this propaganda movies must be scrapped out of the market because it doesn't help to peace and stability process in Rwanda and indeed Burundi. Imagine a Hutu whose parents and relatives were killed watching this movie that suggests that only Tutsi were the victims. A STUPID AND DANGEROUS MOVIE OF ALL TIME THIS CRAP IS.Oh Yes, I am of Tutsi descendants and not Hutu. All we need is peace and not this political craps by Kagame's RPF.


                
The film itself is well crafted and I would normally give such a film 7-9/10. HOWEVER, it is in no way factual in regards to the way Rusesabagina was represented. How film makers can create a film either by not carrying out their full research of a subject, or, even worse, by ignoring the stories of the victims themselves is deplorable, incompetent and extremely insulting to audiences and victims of the so-called 'true story' in question. The lack of integrity and shrewdness of the film makers and the profiteering techniques employed indirectly endorse the actions of their heroic war-criminal. It is no 'true story'! Terry George and Keir Pearson: you're either incompetent scabs on the arse of progress, or money- grabbers knowingly gaining from other's misfortune. In any case, I'll not be watching any more of your films.
