Terminator is relatively slow for the first 20 minutes. We are quickly introduced to Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton). She seems like a nobody (which she pretty much is for the most part - aside from birthing her son).The Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) searches for her since there seems to be quite a few of Sarah Connor's. After finally finding the correct one, he goes on the chase and Sarah tries to hide figuring that she could be killed if found.Meanwhile, Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) shows up from the future. He explains the Terminator is also from the future and is a cybernetic organism. He explains that Sarah's not-born-yet son John Connor is the leader of the rebel army to face the machines. Sarah and Kyle fall in love, somehow, quickly and show it by having sex. Sarah gets pregnant and survives the Terminator attack (this really isn't a spoiler since there is two sequels).Now, at this point you are probably wondering why I titled it as I did. Sure, it sounds interesting. But, Back To The Future makes sense. This is just ridiculous. A guy comes from the future and has a kid with a woman. Think about it. Doesn't that sound over the top? It will continue to happen the same way, thats how time traveling works.The story, however, is not the worst part of the movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger says nearly zero lines. The make-up effects were just dreadful and then you have the special effects. I think for the most part the special effects were dormant. 1977, we saw some amazing special and visual effects from Star Wars. Seven years later, this trash comes out.It was tolerable up till the last 20 minutes. The skeleton was shown and instead of looking scary and realistic, it looked like stop frame animation from Nightmare Before Christmas. I laughed when I first saw this and I was thinking to myself: 'Linda must have hated this part.' It's like running away from air, and screaming at nothing. Must have been difficult to portray. The sequel definitely beats the original by a long shot. The good news about this movie is: James Cameron's career was not ruined by it, thankfully. Titanic, Terminator II, and Aliens all kept it alive.If you are a die-hard Terminator fan or Arnold fan, you'll watch this just for the fact of watching it. But if you're any fraction like me, you won't enjoy it and it will probably never grace your DVD/VCR ever again - unless you have a Terminator marathon.
Now for look back at this " classic ".OK. For us or for this review it is 2017. Now according to this Dungeons & Dragons meets The day the earth stood still plot line , we humanity will create a genocidal race of machines in just 12 short years. In this sad scenario a woman named Sarah Conner who is In fact the mother of the leader of man kinds resistance against these murderous machines is to be killed. A very comforting thought knowing a girl who can't even get her tables orders straight will be our salvation.It business as usual for our heroine as she lands comfortably in her role as a 1980s twenty something. After ducking a phone call for her roommate that would land most men on the sex offender list , she is dumped on an evening dinner by her yuppie boyfriend. After being groped on her way she sets out for an average night in an average area of Los Angeles.During all this hoopla , two beings have arrived from the future. One is a terminator. A machine from the future sent back to the pre - internet era to kill Sarah Conner , and along the way mangle half the phone books in town. The other arrival is an enlisted army officer Named Kyle Reese. His job is effectively protect Sarah from the terminator using a rock salt gun and several firecrackers.The terminator begins killing Sarah Conner's all over Los Angeles in phone book order. ( this is why your number should always be unlisted folks.) Soon LAPD catches on and is out in force looking for our Sarah who is next on the list. This information reaches her by television at a local three star non zagat rated pizza joint. Immediately at this critical moment she goes to the pay phone to call the police station. It is out of order. To bad cell phones have not been invented.She decides that paying five bucks to make a pay phone call at a new wave bar on Pico ave. is the way to go. Nothing beats good new wave music , particularly in a movie whose soundtrack is recorded in the marvelous enriching acoustics of mono. After a shoot out and car chase with the terminator Conner is brought up to speed on her predicament. Both are then captured by the cops.The cops have very little time to sort things out before lugnuts shows up for some drive thru. After mowing through and entire department , the chase resumes. This is the area of the film where Sarah and Kyle fall in love though even 2017 most die hard fans of the movie admit how that happened is over their heads. Maybe , getting pregnant by a guy you have known for 60 minutes whilst being hunted by the Mobile version of CORTANA was hot for women back then who knows.After , their " romance " , the machine finds them at their no star motel and it's back to business as usual. After a round of explosions and car crashes , pretty cut rate at the time as well , they blow up the bad guy. It must have really burned to see it walk out after being killed. Anyway as the computer killer robot hunts our two heroes they decide hiding in a computer factory is their best bet. Nothing like giving your opponent home court advantage to turn the tide in your favor. Either way the machines mission objectives are finally ...crushed.So you have read this and are thinking OK , cheap budget effects it's the 80's. The plot is coherent and the acting not too shabby with a pretty good cast for its day. What gives bro?Simple logic. The movie is not the movie it could be. In the DVD release of this film there are deleted scenes . In one of these scenes Sarah and Kyle are at some stopping point on their journey and Sarah points out to Kyle that she has found the address of the computer company responsible for the creation of the system in the first place. Why not blow it up , and skip the whole thing? Because then we could not have several pointless sequels , another of which commits the same act only for us to receive more pointless sequels. I guess it is all you could expect from the guy that gave you Rambo.These people act like all they care about is money and the quality of their work is secondary. Completely inexcusable.
Like the second movie, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, this one also has little value. Some may revere it culturally but they are clearly mistaken. It is a violent movie which showcases murder and White masculinity. I would never recommend this piece of trash to anyone.There's much more than this short paragraph to describe this film, however. This science fiction film, directed by James Cameron, has become a classic despite what I have previously stated. The horrid violence of this film is not the worst part, but rather than even the time travel to the past is not very interesting either. Other movies have much better forms of time travel than this film. You could say that film is, like the New York Times said when it was first released, "B-movie with flair," or like the Pittsburgh Press and say it has "artsy ugliness." Both of those views have validity. I would add that this film pushed Arnold Schwarzenegger further to stardom and is one of the films is is most known for, not surprisingly.Otherwise, I don't think it is worth reviewing this film any further as I'd rather review more worthwhile films, with this film definitely deserving a rating of 1 out of 10, one of the lowest ratings I have ever given a movie.


                
