The machines rose from the ashes of the nuclear fire. Their war to exterminate mankind had raged for decades, but the final battle would not be fought in the future. It would be fought here, in our present.Tonight...With those words, the legend was born.Then the words fade. There are bright flashes. Out of the smoke rises what looks like a human being. But this is no normal human. Before long he yanks the heart out of a punk who refuses to give him his clothes. He feels no pain, no fear, no pity or remorse. He exists for one purpose only. He is THE TERMINATOR.A few miles away there are more flashes. From the smoke emerges Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn), a human warrior from the future sent to stop the Terminator from accomplishing his mission. What is his mission? For forty minutes we are left in suspense, until the full story is told. In the future, an artificial intelligence is facing imminent defeat at the hands the humans, who it nearly drove to extinction. In a last ditch move, it sent the Terminator back to the year 1984.Its Mission: Kill the future mother of John Connor, the leader of the human resistance. Wipe out his existence entirely so there will be no resistance.Her name is Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton). She is not rich, nor a genius. "I can't even balance my checkbook!" she says, "Do I look like the mother of the future?" But she is. And she is in great danger. Reese has to protect her at all costs, but he could not bring any weapons through the time warp. Nothing dead will travel back through time. How can you stop something that is indestructible?That, my friends, is the crux of what makes this so great. Bits and pieces of information about the future of mankind are dropped in the film's first half. Eventually we can piece them together. Director James Cameron helps us out with flashbacks, as we see the horrifying battleground of 2029 through the eyes of Kyle Reese.Once the exposition is done, the story refocuses on the troubles presently facing Connor and Reese. They can only hide so long before the tenacious machine tracks them down...and kills them.The main element, besides the story, which makes the movie so effective is the way it is directed. Cameron is one of the most gifted directors in the industry, that much is certain, and one of his fortes is pacing. He also co-wrote the script, allowing him to mold the step-by-step action to his directing. The result is a tight, gripping atmosphere with air of mystery and horror mixed in. The story is sound, and builds carefully, with the audience staying involved for both the exposition and the action. There is never a dull moment.The special effects are not very good, even for that day. The visions of the future are not too slick, and most shots of the Terminator's metal structure look fake at best. Still, Cameron finds a way to give his imagery impact and depth. The musical score is percussion heavy and synthesized, but what makes it work so well is that it's tenacious, subtly embodying the personality of the title character.As for the acting...well, Cameron is a great director there, too. Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfectly cast as the Terminator. His most haunting quality is the straight face he keeps while slaughtering anyone who stands in his way. Linda Hamilton and Michael Biehn are wholly convincing, making us feel for their plight. The always likable Paul Winfield also gets in on the act as a police lieutenant.In the end, this is Cameron's movie to win or lose, and he uses all of skills to the fullest. Despite its shortcomings, "The Terminator" is a winner. Perhaps I can finally forgive Cameron for "Titanic."
Terminator is one of the best action movies / science fiction, special effects are amazing for the time, Arnold Schwarzenegger makes his best character in the career, the story of the film is excellent, James Cameron makes a great direction, you have a lot of action in film is also much persecution , the soundtrack of the film is very good , have enough time in the apocalyptic future and the look is excellent, the final scene is great , who would say that Sarah Connor would be so strong and fearless in the second film, movie cast is good, the acting is good , Terminator is not better than the sequel, more is higher than 3.4 and Genesis , the film is a milestone for science fiction films . Note 7.6


                
Entertaining sci-fi action-drama.Revolutionary special effects are what makes this movie special. The effects, from 1984, are still good even by today's standards. The plot is not bad either. Unlike most of James Cameron's movies, which are purely style over substance (yes, I'm thinking of Titanic and Avatar in particular), this movie has a decent plot. Not entirely watertight, but it exists and is reasonably coherent and plausible and not merely a medium for linking action scenes.Though he had done the two Conan movies before this, it is this movie that made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star. Not there for his acting abilities, or linguistic skill, he was every bit the action figure (not quite action hero...). Linda Hamilton was solid in her role (though her hair style shows this movie was made in the 80s...). Michael Biehn was OK, though sometimes came off as too over-the-top in his performance.


                
In the year 2029, the robots have taken over but are losing the war... and they have devised a plan: send a robot back to the past to destroy the mother of the human leader, thus causing him never to be born. Unfortunately for the evil robots, human Kyle Reese has been sent back, too.While I think the sequel is flatly better, and I do not feel this film deserves to be in the top 250 of all time, it is a good film by all accounts. Action, good plot, decent acting... horror icons Michael Biehn, Lance Henriksen, and Dick Miller are all here. A young Bill Paxton even shows up.James Cameron has had an amazing career, and this was an early triumph. Even if he walked away from the franchise after the first film (a great science fiction tale), he would have kicked off an amazing series and a television show. With consistently strong writing, plot and continuity, we have to thank Cameron.


                
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton and Michael Biehn star in James Cameron's 1984 sci-fi film. A soldier from the future protects a woman from a cyborg assassin. This film takes place in the present of 1984 where a soldier, Kyle Reese (Biehn) and a terminator (Schwarzenegger) are sent from 2029. Sarah Connor (Hamilton) is about to be in a tug of war battle. She meets Kyle and learns that's she's targeted for termination and why. He also tells her that he's always loved her and came across time for her. The final scenes are the highlight of the film and this is not only one of Cameron's best films, but Arnold & sci-fi's as well. The cast, music and effects are great. I highly recommend this.
Arnold lumbers about blasting everything in sight with various weapons while his intended target (Hamilton) keeps a few steps ahead of him. Director Cameron excites at every turn with screeching car chases and flaming explosions. Followed by an amazing sequel.


                
Before The Terminator, James Cameron wasn't to well known as he had previously done Piranha 2: The Spawning, which received negative reviews from critics and audiences. But that led him to The Terminator, it started off as he was having a dream about being chased by a killer cyborg while he was on directing the Piranha sequel although he'd been bed ridden because he got sick from the food poisoning. Arnold Schwarzenegger was known as a body builder not really an actor. Originally Schwarzenegger wanted to play Kyle Reese the man sent from the future to protect Sarah Conner. But it ultimately went to Michael Biehn. This is for the best as Schwarzenegger's terminated is known now to be one of the best movie villain's of all times. James Cameron originally plan was to only have one movie but the success critically and commercially led to four sequels (one of which he directs). The visual effect's for the movie are amazing as for the time of the initial release no one had ever seen anything like it making James Cameron a legitimate filmmaker in Hollywood. The acting is strong and is easy to follow, the ending of the movie is what you wouldn't expect leaving you with hope. If you thought this is another low-budget crappy sci-fi thriller you'd be wrong as this movie launched James Cameron's career, Arnold Schwarzenegger's career, Michael Biehn, and Linda Hamilton's and with Bill Paxton's cameo. With James Cameron's direction the film is what it is today a classic that never get's old.
Arnold Schwarzenegger is unstoppable in"The Terminator."I first seen this when I was 3 years old on VHS and was blown away by it.It's haunting atmosphere and it's grittiness.It's both intriguing and frighting, that is so original.Sometimes this is referred to being called a horror movie. It's not really but sort of a hybrid of both sci-fi and horror.This may contain some spoilers.The year is 1984. The Terminator arrives and goes an a killing rampage in Search for his ultimate target: "Sarah Connor."Kyle Reese arrives to rescue her from Terminator. Unknown to her, her destiny is to help insure the survival of the entire human race form being wiped out by the machines and an artificial intelligence supercomputer known as Sky-net for Kyle's future time.What can I say It is just fast pace thrill ride from start to finish I totally love this movie it's just cool.I give it a 7/10 an awesome film that gets the franchise off to a nice fun start. It's a thinking man's action movie.
A few way cool things to talk about: Every time a machine works right down to a wheelbarrow, it changes everything. It deeply alters and affects experience, and in time the new experience dictates its own logic and vision. You simply cannot fail to appreciate, for instance, the tremendous opening up of vision enabled by the automobile invention: new borders to the world, radically new impressions of seeing (in-car), the new span for knowledge, experience and time, and how that reprograms everything, like how far you can travel to court a woman and spread your genes. We are all being rewired these days by this internet thingamajig.One of these new roads paved (in part) by the automobile was an Italian movement called Futurism. Those guys took to rapturous, often combative appreciation of everything new about technology in the 1910's, fascinated by mechanics, speed, industrial noise, the precision of gears (which they hoped to express in art). Incidental to that was their fervent support of war, in their view nature's machinery for cleansing itself. Ideas from there seeped to the newly formed Soviet Union, and melded with Marxism found cinematic expression in guys like Dziga Vertov: if you don't know, he was up to some pretty radical things, looking for machine-like precision in the gears of vision.Flash forward - sixty years later. Roger Corman's factory is one of few places where film is an actual assembly-line. Sets, shots, effects, they're all interchangeable parts cheaply recycled from one b-film to the next. A young James Cameron is tutoring there. His focus is strictly on making devices work, function above art. This is nothing like the computer-generated effects we have now, those days it was a job you did with your hands and KY jello. He's one of few talented guys working for Corman, a real workhorse. He's so driven, the story goes that he flew all the way to Italy to fight producers over control of the dreadful Piranha gig.So here's Cameron's start in the business, the first time he was in control of both mechanical parts and the overall machinery of camera and vision. The idea reportedly came to him while in Rome, a single image: a metallic endoskeleton emerges from flames. This could be his way of denying the Harlan Ellison influence, but either way. You can imagine the incredible , primeval allure of that vision to a practical man like him; it must have been high pleasure of the scope of a naval engineer caressing with his mind the steel hull of a new submarine.And this is what the film is about, a craftsman's vision of what he does. Mechanism. Oh, there is a story of nuclear wars and time travel from a bleak future. There is a love interest and actual scene of lovemaking. But, all of it is mechanical on the human end, simple cogs. It's sketched quite clearly in the film; the film flags when we stop to have story explained to us, until we return to the exciting precision of function of the Terminator plot. The function is strictly violence, Marinetti's exhilarating futuristic war meant to cleanse the world of rotten humanity, and all the other Futurist tropes, the obsession with cars and speed, with gears.Central among the gear is of course a machine that is spliced into the world to bare its mechanism: rods, gears, voice emulator, repair skills, ruptured silicon skin reveals electronic -camera- eye. The accompanying Terminator-vision might as well have given video games their start in first perspective.Everything else is only incidental to the machine, only skin dressing for it to be presented in the world of humans and storytelling, to cross into our world from Cameron's workshop.Cameron does well, except one thing. I lament that he wasn't introduced by someone to Texas Chainsaw the way Scott was in preparation for Alien. It is not the roughly same genre of the two films. It's learning from Hooper's accomplishment of violent energy purely channeled and sustained in the fabric of the film, no stories asked.And everything we learn about that future is simply nonsense - my favorite bit is that machines have marshaled men in forced labor of disposing their own!Imagine the same film without a story of explanations, a bit like the first Alien. Two men have come back from god knows where, one a machine. The rest is tension, darkness, gears, heavy metal.The machine is only defeated by another machine, human-operated.Instead of going Vertov's way, Cameron would go on to attach despotic overambition to those clumsy storytelling skills - a mechanistic approach to narrative and 'message'. His cinematic machine worked, years of dedicated Corman practice made sure. And it changed everything, further tunneling our vision.


                
Personally, I enjoyed the sequels better and the film is somewhat dated (especially with the electronic soundtrack), but I still liked this movie. I just don't visualize myself watching it on many repeat viewings.  Arnold Schwarzenegger's robotic acting is perfect for the role of the terminator. On the other hand, Michael Biehn has no excuse.  His performance is completely dull, and I wish James Cameron put more thought into casting the hero.  You do want the hero to have SOME inkling of a personality.  Linda Hamilton's performance, though rusty at points, is pretty good.  It's also nice to see Paul Winfield, who I think I haven't seen since "Cliffhanger." Lance Henriksen is always cool to watch.  The storyline is thin and easy-to-follow.  It's nice to hear the premiere of Arnie's "I'll be back" line.  The film didn't send me leaping from my seat, but it's worth a look. Seeing that it has reached pretty high status on the IMDB, I'm sure others have a much higher opinion of the original "Terminator."My score:  7 (out of 10)


                
We really did get some of our greatest action movies out of the 1980's. In that decade, where there was action, there was Arnold. This is probably Arnold Schwarzenegger's most iconic film role, that of the unstoppable Terminator. In this science fiction/thriller milestone, the Terminator is a cyborg sent from the year 2029 to kill the mother of the man who would save mankind from the machines. Its a film nearly everyone has seen, so there isn't a whole lot to say about it. It was a great action flick that launched a successful franchise.The special effects are a little dated at this point, but it isn't bad enough to pull you out of the movie. The animatronics and puppets are obvious but cool to watch. While on the topic of "dated", it is kind of amusing to see this movie take place surrounded by 80's style (that's some BIG hair). The film is loaded with plenty of action but it does slow down a bit after the first half when the audience is treated to the bulk of the movie's exposition. Linda Hamilton is awesome as Sarah Connor, target for termination, and has good on-screen chemistry with Michael Biehn. The only real weak spot (which isn't even really worth mentioning) in the movie was Bill Paxton in the opening as the leader of a punk gang. As minor as his role is, for some reason, he always makes me cringe. For some reason, he just aggravates me in this movie. Of course, he's only on screen for two minutes and his role means near to nothing, so ignore my rant.The movie does have a couple plot holes, but only if you feel like feeding a headache with thoughts of time travel mechanics. Most people don't, so it doesn't matter. The movie is a fun popcorn flick and spawned two sequels. Don't try to make sense of things, sit back, and enjoy nearly two hours of action with 80's flair and some of Arnold's best one-liners!


                
A cyborg is sent from the future on a deadly mission. He has to kill Sarah Connor, a young woman whose life will have a great significance in years to come. Sarah has only one protector - Kyle Reese - also sent from the future. The Terminator uses his exceptional intelligence and strength to find Sarah, but is there any way to stop the seemingly indestructible cyborg?This film is smart, maybe ingenious toward the ending, but it's no where near a great or fantastic film. Just because the ending was good doesn't mean it's a masterpiece. This film delivers the action you want, some humorous scenes, and some suspenseful scenes.I liked the acting by Arnold Schwarzenegger and Linda Hamilton, while Michael Biehn wasn't in their league. For a 1984 film, this film has a good number of action scenes, probably a good look of the future world and the robots are good looking.This villain in the film (played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) is one of the famous villains ever and that stands a strong point in the film, along with the story and the acting but it wasn't all that great as a classic but you'll have fun when watching the movie.


                
I decided to rent this movie awhile ago.  I hadn't seen it in awhile, so I figured what the heck.  Well, Terminator wasn't as good as I remember it, but it does have its moments.  First of all, sometimes it was very obvious that they used a puppet face for Arnold.  Second, Linda Hamilton sucked.  She just went around saying "Omigod, omigod, omigod." Arnold (I'm more used to seeing him as a good guy) just didn't have it. Michael Biehn was the highlight of the movie.  That guy should've been famous.  Anyways, it clearly shows signs of date, but it is still pretty good.


                
This action film contains few dialogues and most scenes are about Terminator´s woman Hunt. Its success is mainly due to the fact that the original idea was coming at the time when machines started replacing human being in some Jobs and other everyday life activities. Although James Cameron deserves his reputation, it is to be noticed that there is a huge inconsistency as for John Connors paternity--- Also, as it is about technology, I am not sure whether the new generations will enjoy it as much as when it was released.


                
The first time when I saw the movie I was a child. At that time, the movie was a very big thing and I remember that I was very excited to watch it. Overall the movie is great, for that specific time it was a perfect movie. Sci-Fi with a bit of horror I can say that the movie makes you feel the chill.


                
Cameron was stuck in Rome in the early eighties editing Piranha II: The Spawning; a film that he was not even supposed to be working on. During the late nights in the editing room Cameron started to dream of an image of a robotic skeleton emerging from a massive explosion. He took that idea home with him and while waiting for his paycheck from Piranha II, he and his future wife future wife Gale Anne Hurd developed a story around the image.If only I could turn some of my crazy dreams into a multi million dollar franchise. Any type of decent sci fi story that was inspired by a dream or a nightmare is pretty cool in my book. You've gotta respect a guy who trusts his vision enough to see it through all the rejection they went through to get that film made.


                
Yeah, this movie is great about effects and the plot is really original, but after 40 minutes of it I cannot simply stand for this. The actors are great, nothing to worry about that and one of the most solid Schwarzenegger acting, and he is one of my all time favorite actors.Let me get this. So, you send cyborg to kill a girl named Sarah Connor so she will never have this baby, but his father travel back to time and manage to find her and save him from being killed. A lot of action, good acting and fun, but... just that, fun.I mean, there are so many plot holes and ridiculous thing that I cannot simply enjoy it, and because this movie take itself so serious, more that it should. Some questions: 1) If is supposed that Reese come back and have the baby, the first time how they make the baby? Think about it. Is supposed that he come back in time to save her for their baby... so the first time what!? 2) Yeah, I buy the lack of people in the streets and the factory.3) Now she knows exactly what button press to kill the terminator in the factory? 4) WHY THE SEX!? IS SO FORCED! I MEAN, TWO DAYS! 5) The cops... 6) If the terminators kill her, then he will never exist, because he was send to kill her, but if he doest exist, he will not because that purpose will not be necessary so... MY GOD}!I agree, this movie is greatabout the story and the effects, but the so many incoherences, plot holes, forced stuff that I cannot understand why the people keepcalling this the best Sci-fi movie ever!?
Okay, so "The Terminator" wasn't any kind of masterpiece. But it did have an interesting premise, that a machine (Arnold Schwarzenegger) gets sent back in time to kill the mother of the future resistance leader. Admittedly, it seems a little far-fetched that Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) only has this boy because Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) gets sent back in time to protect her. But it's just a movie, people! True, if Ah-nuld had murdered the mother, then there never would have been a resistance leader to begin with, and the government wouldn't have seen any reason to send him back in time. But you can't dwell on that stuff. Just sit back and watch the action. As it is, I actually liked "T2" better, mainly because the mother was a bad-ass in that one.
In an age when computers began to be relied on more and more, not a scarier film could come along. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays the title role, a cyborg sent back through time to kill the mother (Hamilton) of a then-unborn resistance leader that would defeat the invading Terminator-race in the future. Michael Biehn plays an unlikely but well-done hero, with Henriksen, Boen and Winfeld as the unexpected comedic relief that lacked in the sequels. The story suffers from a paradox you could drive a big rig through; the special-effects weren't that far ahead of its time; and the soundtrack may have suited the mood for 1984, but it ended up dating poorly. Schwarzenegger fits the role perfectly. Originally, Henriksen was supposed to play the Terminator. The series continues with the far more impressive "Terminator 2: Judgment Day".*** (out of four)


                
The Terminator is a good sci-fi film with some flaws but it does have a compelling story, plenty of action, character development, suspense, great special effects especially for that time, and solid performances by the whole cast. I did prefer T2 and most recently Terminator Salvation over this one but the original is still a good film. Writer/Director James Cameron the man behind films like Titanic, True Lies, Alien 2, and the upcoming Avatar showed a real talent as a filmmaker with this movie which was his second one back then. Cameron is one of the best writer/directors out there and he continues to prove just that with every one of his movies. The cast are great in their roles bringing to life these imaginary characters Cameron created for the film. Arnold Schwarzenegger is fantastic in the title role. He may not have many lines and his screen time is cut a little short near the end well sort of Schwarzenegger still proves to be an effective villain. He was born to play The Terminator a ruthless cyborg from the future that will stop at nothing until it's mission is complete. Michael Biehn is equally impressive as time traveler Kyle Reese from the future. He gets just as much screen time if not a little more than Schwarzenegger and Biehn makes the best of his role as the hero in the movie. He brings an intensity to his performance which makes his believable as a time traveler whose mission is to protect Sarah Connor played by Linda Hamilton. She's also very good in the role of Sarah an ordinary woman who must find the strength within herself to stop the Terminator before he kills her. The rest of the cast are okay in their roles but they're not given much to do and really any screen time to leave an impression. The whole story of the film would take me forever to fully explain so I'm not going to get into it. It's better to just watch the Terminator before knowing too much what the movie is about before any spoilers could ruin the experience. The action is pretty much non-stop making the film move at a steady pace as the main characters are introduced and the chase begins to get to Sarah Connor first. All the crashes, explosions, chases, fights, and narrow escapes are well executed most of them looking very realistic. The special effects are state of the art especially for movies back then considering they didn't have the technology available today. The few flashback sequences with Reese showing a post Judgment Day are just as good. The world is an apocalyptic wasteland overrun by machines bent on annihilating the human race. Despite some flaws with the dialogue occasionally, answered questions, and somewhat rushed love story although it had to happen or else John Connor wouldn't exist, The Terminator is still a solid sci-fi film. It's much better than other ones out there like Ultraviolet, Babylon A.D., or Aeon Flux to name a few no offense. Overall The Terminator is an entertaining sci-fi adventure definitely worth watching with plenty of action, great special effects, thrills, suspense, drama, some humor, a little romance, and terrific performances by the cast.


                
"The Terminator" is one of those science fiction films that represent the ultimate in cinematic experience.It made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star,yes and it also took us into a futuristic society that had me asking so many questions about technology."The Terminator" is the kind of film I grew to watch as a kid on home video over a number of times,eventually leading me to realize that this film is actually one of the most smartest science fiction films ever made.It's not just science,but it's also an action packed event which director James Cameron successfully entertained the viewers with."Terminator 2:Judgment Day" was a better movie which doese not mean I think any less of this film."The Terminator" shouldn't be missed and I really think that it has a place as the most important science fiction film ever made.


                
The Terminator (1984)I just saw this first Terminator movie in 2014 for the third time, and I expected something more, and different from it. Naturally, the surprise is gone, and I think the plot idea is maybe the strongest point to the whole movie. The movie is directed with panache, for sure—the effects, the action, the deliberate lack of depth, the epic glossy wow of it all. But it's not a rich movie, it doesn't have depths, it frankly lacks enough to make a second or third viewing worth the trouble. Unless, of course, you are already invested and committed to it for personal reasons.The first shot, very early in the movie, when the naked Schwarzenegger appears crouched in the urban night, is archetypal and terrific. And then he moves and interacts (still naked, though you don't see that) and the comic element is in place. And here we have the movie, both profound to the point of being moved, and kitschy and puerile, too. It's sort of meant to be a accessible and direct, and that makes it a great first viewing. The plot is certainly loaded with big (huge) twists and mind-bending ideas. And we want so much for right to triumph over evil. You have to ask eventually about the acting. Maybe we need a stiff automaton in the role of the robotic machine that is known as the "terminator" (a cyborg). So the future governor of California is off the hook. But the other main lead, the woman known so well as Sarah Connor, is a so-so actress. No way around the plain approach she has to being a regular girl caught up in the largest story possible. The other time-traveller, a human played by Michael Biehn, is pure nuts and bolts stuff, too. In fact, it's hard to really love any of the performances, except maybe the police chief. All of this boils down to a movie that scores very high on concept and on the basic effects. This is what drives it to stardom. But leave it at that. Love it for what it is, plain and simple. James Cameron, the lauded and wealthy director in charge, is no genius here, but is very very able. That's a back-handed compliment, for sure. But lovers of Kubrick or Ridley Scott know what I mean.A re-alignment of the stars for this one. Over time.


                
Yeah that's right! The Terminator is a Human Form of Arnold Schwarzenegger! And went to kill the woman named Sarah Connor. Why is he evil in this film? He was good in a lot of films! Like Kindergarten Cops, Jingle all the way, Junior, and the movie where he becomes a spy( I forgot what the movie is called). This is the only film with him I seen as being evil. This movie has some disturbing scenes. Do I like it? Yes. It's a pretty good movie. I watched it a few times. But I like the sequel better So yeah. Do I recommend this film? Yes for: Back to the Future fans, people who likes wars, that likes robots, and anybody who's 13 years and older.


                
This is a excellent sci-fi movie for it's time, it has a lot of the elements in this mixed together but works very well. The main villain is the one that stands out the most, played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. He is basically a full machine in this literally when it comes to the plot aka The Terminator and he played his role in a pretty intimidating and menacingly manner, although he seemed a bit human at times when he is suppose to be a machine which isn't good. Especially since he is the villain and should not be showing emotions when it comes to facial expressions for this first movie in the franchise, even if it's slight at times. Although it will be different in the sequel, but for this it came off as a bit of a mistake, especially the mannerism in certain scenes. He just didn't seem like a full machine that is out to kill it's target because he seemed human, so it made the experience a bit slightly less frightening. But for it's time it's done very well. This is the beginning of a very notorious movie franchise that many people know of or at least heard about and I can see why by just watching this first movie. The script is well written and got my attention most of the way through even if it's a outdated and certain scenes just look way too fake. But even now this movie still holds up in today's standards because of the good direction and because it's well crafted. This movie also has classic phrases that are notorious and the way it reveals what is going on bit by bit is done pretty well, although some audiences will know what is going on pretty quickly, the execution is well crafted. This is a sci-fi/action movie with elements of horror and romance in it, but it's blended in just right and is worth seeing even if it's outdated by today's standards by a large margin and is a thrill to watch.7.8/10
Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines was the first Terminator movie I saw, and I greatly enjoyed it. When I heard the first two were better, I bought both of them without a second thought, before even watching them. Was I disappointed? NO.The Terminator is without a doubt the defining Sci-Fi action film of all time. though future films of the same genre may have been better, this one stands alone as the founder of the marriage between Science-Fiction and Action films.The plot centers around the destruction of the world as we know it, due to computers becoming self-aware and destroying their makers: Humans. After a machine-induced nuclear holocaust, human survivors fight back against the machines, led by a man named John Connor. A computer-soldier called a "Terminator" is sent back in time by the machines, to kill the mother of John Connor, so he can never be born. The human resistance also sends one of their soldiers back in time, to protect the unborn child. Both soldiers are sent back to 1984, to battle over the fate of their future.Terminator is known as one of the most iconic story lines of all time, and rightfully so. This is one of those classics that has to be watched by any movie fanatic. It is one of the defining films of the 80's and the Sci-Fi genre.Taking this film simply as another sci-fi film, you may find it to be not much better than others. But the reason this movie deserves the "great movie" merit, is simply the concept behind it, a concept that has inspired many future science-fiction titles.Great Film 9/10 stars
