I don't like action movies generally, and had to be coaxed into seeing this one by a friend.  It was a major and pleasant surprise to me, and I left it with questions beyond the scope of the film, which always happens with the ones I really like (ie, Did John know who Reese was/would be when he sent him?).  Most of all, I left it a Michael Biehn fan; he is great in this movie.


                
One of the best movies ever and one of the greatest classics of science fiction. This is one of the greatest films ever, with fantastic special effects, very good cast, a very good director, a truly expetacular story and a truly good soundtrack. The only downside to this movie is the stop-motion at the end of the movie. This film is undoubtedly one of the best films of the 80's, a true masterpiece of cinema. A movie that everyone should watch at least once in their lives. Highly recommend.


                
Here's another film from the '80s that is reaching "classic" status. Unlike some of the other popular movies of its day, this one had two sequels that both were successful, particularly the second. In retrospect, what makes this "Terminator" different is that Arnold Schwarzenegger was the villain, not the hero, as he was in the other Terminator movies.Here, Michael Biehn and Linda Hamilton are the "good guys." The now famous phrase by Arnold, "I'll be back." comes from this film. Hamilton, meanwhile, also was different, with a shapely figure and a fairly nice person, unlike the ultra-thin and coarse woman she was in the first sequel.Played mostly for violence and special effects, the film is a bit rough and sleazy in parts but certainly was popular because, like most of Arnold's film, it flat-out entertains.


                
I haven't seen this one in a while. It used to be on cable a lot but I haven't crossed paths with it in a while. That's too bad. "The Terminator" is a great action movie. There's one great scene followed by another great scene. This movie began quite a streak of solid movies for director James Cameron. Arnold too.


                
In regards of every single aspect, The Terminator is the textbook example of just how much can be done with as little money.With a simple, yet innovative use of camera movements, and different camera angles, James Cameron shot some of the most impressive action sequences and car chases. The use of zooming technique, in particular, in chases scenes also created a great deal of tension.Simply put, The Terminator is one of the best paced action movies ever. It's not fast as most of the cheesy action flicks of the eighties, nor slow-burning like Blade Runner's that definitely wouldn't suit the movie's tone. It's just perfect!Some may say the special effects are dated and don't hold up very well, but I don't mind them at all. In fact, I liked so much the visual effects, and I found them pretty convincing. The makeup is also remarkable for its time.What dazzles me aren't the effect, though, but the not-a-word-wasted dialogue. There is no line of dialogue that has been wasted. Every line or even gesture is as short as it's powerful as you can ever imagine.The movie isn't without its flaws, though. I found the way we got to know for the first time about the background story pretty lazy. Also, the whole situation was unsuitable for giving us information, but, nonetheless, the time was perfectly enough for us to know the most important things. There were also a couple of times later when the luck played a vital role in saving the protagonist's life. Besides, there is a glaring plot hole at the end of the movie that really drove me crazy till the credits roll.The movie features Arnold Schwarzenegger in his career-defining role, and I can easily see why. Casting him was a perfect choice to portray a relentless, rigid, indestructible cyborg. From seeing her vulnerable to accepting her fate, and trying to convince herself of it, Linda Hamilton is absolutely terrific as Sarah Connor. Michael Biehn is fantastic as well. Kyle Reese is my favorite character from the movie.A great score that just hits the right note by walking a fine line between the bleakness of the post-apocalyptic world and the cheesiness that distinguishes the movie's nature.(8.5/10)


                
This movie is a solid action movie. Not all of the dialogue is great and some of the effects are a bit dated - but this movie is still effective. The acting is great. The plot is great. This movie is well-shot and worth watching. I can't really come up with many things that are bad about it that don't have to do with it being old. This is just a fun movie with good action, time travel, and robots. I'd definitely recommend this movie. Its worth watching if you're looking for a good time.


                
Movie Review: "The Terminator" (1984)On February 8th 1984 started the 3-months-period of principal photography for 29-year-old writer/director James Cameron diving into his a dream-come-true-project "The Terminator". Blessed with a cast of former-body-builder-turned-actor Arnold Schwarzenegger as the death-bringing killer machine from the future, where ominous digitally-interlinking electronic defense system SkyNet takes over world's politics and domestics; further actress Linda Hamilton as young and innocent down-on-her-luck character of Sarah Connor, meeting the mysterious man, her guardian against the "Terminator", actor Michael Biehn, pushing limits by full-bodied gun-slinging, car-chasing, car-crashing stress situations to make the picture based on an original innovative screenplay by the director and producing partner Gale Anne Hurd. Together they make full use of the even-lower production budget as for comparable groundbreaking first-time original movies as "Star Wars" (1977) and "Alien" (1979), which had at least 10-12 Million U.S. Dollars in their production account; here the financing report says just 6.4 Million Dollars. That the motion picture result, doomed to be an 2nd-rate-grindhouse-movie on first look pages became a motion picture classic has been due to James Cameron's vision of a demanding clean-cut, straight, without-losing-up into detail cinematography by Adam Greenberg, a mesmerizing score by Brad Fiedel, action immersive editorial by Mark Goldblatt and most of all the high-tech research of a director, who made full of the Fantasy II Film effects company in integrating stop-motion photography for the pursuing "Terminator" in a thrilling showdown between woman versus machine at a metal-processing factory interior location.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Being a pre-teen back in 1984, it was inevitable not to get familiar with all the action movies of the 1980's. And the 1984 "The Terminator" starring none other than Arnold Schwarzenegger definitely was one of the biggest action movies of the mid-Eighties.I am very sure that everyone is familiar with the "Terminator" franchise and the plans of Skynet. But for those of you not yet familiar with the franchise, this 1984 movie, which started it all, is about a cyborg (played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) sent from 2029 back in time to 1984 where his mission is to terminate Sarah Connor (played by Linda Hamilton), whose unborn son will lead humanity in a war against the machines. But the humans of 2029 has managed to send back a single soldier (played by Michael Biehn) to prevent this from happening.There, essentially the entire story wrapped up with a handful of words. Despite its simplicity, then there are layers underneath the storyline which adds lots of flavor and detail to the story and the universe of the "Terminator" franchise. Things which will come to be realized and utilized in the later movies.For a 1984 action movie then "The Terminator" was just off the charts. It had great special effects, heaps of non-stop action, and best of all it had Schwarzenegger. It has all the ingredients that a good action movie need in order to be successful. And you must agree that the "Terminator" franchise has been successful throughout the years since 1984.Director James Cameron does what he does best here, and that is putting together a riveting action movie that grabs the audience by the you-know-whats and doesn't let go before the end credits start rolling. James Cameron really has a talent for memorable action movies.The cast in "The Terminator" also really had a lot of credit due for the success of the movie. Anything that Arnold Schwarzenegger touched in the mid-Eighties was bound to be an action success. And alongside him in this 1984 movie stood Michael Biehn and Linda Hamilton, both of whom put on equally good performances and held the level of Schwarzenegger formidably."The Terminator" is one of those types of action movies that never grow old. Sure certain effects are hopelessly outdated by what Hollywood dish out today, but they were really great back in 1984. And the effects do serve their purpose well enough, especially given that this movie is driven by a mixture of story, character and effects.Lots of action and lots of one-liners, "The Terminator" is an entertaining movie that is well-worth spending 107 minutes on watching.


                
I liked the 1st Terminator movie because of the plot of the movie. I also liked the idea of the Terminator going back in time was a very good idea in my mind. The gun-fighting scenes are good as well. I liked every single fight in the Movie. I especially liked the "Cyborg sent back in time" part and the "saving the world" part. I enjoyed the movie quite a bit because of that. The only bad thing was the end. But i enjoyed that too. There were some bad spots what i didn't like hence the 8/10. The movie overall was quite good. The aspect of the Movie was extrorinary. The plot was amazing, the way the movie was acted out was good, so i can't really say i didn't enjoy it a lot.
This was one of those early movies that drew me in to the world of Hollywood. Of course, when I first watched it, I didn't have much idea about what went behind the scenes when making this movie. But now that I do, my respect for this movie has grown tremendously given what it was able to accomplish on such a low budget with such a small set of characters making what could have easily been a B-movie in the wrong hands seem like a solid sci-fi story ending with an epic feeling of the things to follow.The movie begins with what is possibly one of the coolest title cards for a 1980s flick with Brad Fiedel's iconic Terminator theme playing in the background as the cast is listed in the form of messages displayed from a computer terminal. This is followed by the Terminator and the human making their appearances from the future into our present, gathering clothes and weapons and heading out in their own respective ways in the search for Sarah Connor, a teenage girl part-timing as a waitress upon whose survival rests humanity's future as both she and us learn later. What follows is a cat and mouse game where the human goes all out to protect her and the Terminator is all out to get her and it won't stop, literally right till the end.What separates this movie (and its immediate sequel) from the "other" sequels is James Cameron's balancing act who, much like Spielberg, allows the story to take center-stage and drive everything else and has perfect control over the length of sequences, edits, camera cuts and angles. 10 minutes into the movie and you're in, drawn to this world, completely forgetting that the futuristic crafts and landscapes are miniatures with absolutely no chance of being drawn out of this world. While I didn't find the characters to be groundbreaking or as interesting as in other dramas, the plot was extremely well constructed and allowed for some really cool paradoxes that would make for some interesting discussion (would John Conner even exist if he hadn't sent Kyle back in time).The effects deserve special mention too. It is incredible how much Stan Winston's crew and Fantasy II were able to achieve at the time. All the futuristic scenes, the sequence with the Terminator treating his injuries, the chase sequences and the entire ambitious final act all work and some of them still hold up three decades later. And Brad Fiedel's theme gives me goosebumps every time I hear it, as if signaling an impending apocalypse.All the actors do well in their respective roles, particularly Arnold who shines in a part that seemed almost tailor made to suit his acting capabilities. But it is Cameron who is truly the star of this endeavor, believing in his project and driving it to execution. Thank God for the success of this movie, which gave us many more masterpieces by Cameron. But then, it was entirely deserving of it. A sci-fi tech-noir classic.Overall Score: 8.0 / 10.0


                
It was interesting upon viewing this movie for the 5th time while keeping in mind the struggles that California was going through when Arnold first took office. I saw Sarah Connor as a Gray Davis figure, one who was unfairly hunted down by powerful enemies, for reasons out of her control. If you recall Gray Davis was the very unpopular governor of California during the electricity crisis in 2000 and 2001. He was unfairly blamed for the rolling blackouts in the state, when in fact Enron was to blame because they had a stranglehold on the power plants and were shutting them down, creating excess demand while diminishing the supply.The Terminator is Enron, a seemingly unstoppable force hellbent on the destruction of its enemies. Like Enron, The Terminator does not play by the rules; it does anything it can to complete its objective.But the powerful always fall. Enron flew too close to the sun and disintegrated when they could not keep up the facade any longer. The Terminator was destroyed when Sarah Connor lured him into a mechanical press. Although both Enron and The Terminator was defeated, the threat they posed still lingers. Corporate greed is still prevalent, as evidenced by the 2008 financial crisis. Banks and other financial institutions laid waste to the global economy, without sympathy for those whose lives they destroyed. The Terminator is a product of a future, possibly created by another, much more severe financial crisis that is looming over us. Terminators lay waste to everything, destroying the world and making it practically uninhabitable. If we do not learn from our mistakes, and continue to allow corporate greed to permeate throughout our society, big banks and the financial wizards of Wall Street will destroy this society without a second thought. Short-term profits always win out, without any regard for long-term sustainability.
The Terminator is a tour de force feature film by James Cameron-a story so good you can't help but be involved. It involves a dire future where machines rule and humans are worse off than rats. A man-a savior by the name of John Connor appears from the future into the present to save Sarah Connor- his mother. They are hunted by The Terminator- a vision of artificial intelligence which is lethal and methodical and incredibly well played by Arnold who was stepping into superstardom. This is one of the greatest thriller (horror?) drama films ever and a staple of science fiction. Watch The Terminator asap.


                
I'd watched the second Terminator when I was 13 (almost 14) in the late 1990s and it wasn't until 2004 or so that I saw this one. But what a movie! This gives us the origins of Sarah Connor and her struggle against the machines. This has to be one of my favorite Arnie films; this and T2. It's also one of my favorite James Cameron sci-fi films, along with Aliens and Avatar. Though Arnie is portrayed as a villain in this one, he literally steals the show. And the special effects by Stan Winston are good too. I'll keep this one and the second one as my favorite Arnie Terminator films and avoid the others.


                
This is probably one of the best science fiction movies ever made. The acting is utterly amazing across the entire movie, the soundtrack is suspenseful is really fitting to the entire mood, the action scenes are well done, the effects are amazing for the 1980's. The entire thing for such a low budget movie works out so well I still can't really believe that this was not a bigger hit in the box office. This movie should have made at least 100 million at the box office if I had to be totally honest on how good it was. I think the plot was really good as well and the time travel was decent enough for what it was for and thankfully it wasn't really all that big of a deal actually. It was just there for the sake of explaining how the characters are all in the same town. And I will say that I do like the whole son subplot and the sex scene showing his conception and how a man from the future is his father.
Glorified original movie, with color and energy, adrenaline racing, this '84 blockbuster was, where all actors were at the top of their, Arnie of course, most of all, where Biehn is great as the guy, sent back in time to save Sarah Connor (Hamilton) from termination, by our favorite robot/terminator. See, she's gonna have a baby, that'll grow up and lead the resistance, against bad forces and Armageddon. This is a cool fast moving flick from start to finish, and never lacks, or loses grip of it's story. It's script has a beautiful flow, of great action and unforgettable scenes that will stay implanted in your mind forever. Going to see this as a teen, was one of the greatest movie experiences I had. It's wonderfully shot, every scene , and for people who want to see Arnie at the top his game in the acting circuit, this is the flick to see. Must see entertainment and a bucket list movie. Jot it down, before you leave this world. The heart pounding score is fantastic in this, just adding it's frightening ride.


                
I had only seen Avatar and Titanic when I, watching TV found True Lies. It was a great spy film and I enjoyed it. The next day I watched Titanic, as excellent as ever. Then I thought about watching other James Cameron films. He s definitely a genius and while waiting for Avatar 2, I watched The Terminator, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. The basic idea of the film is that in the future most of humanity has been wiped out by machines. A brave man named John leads the human resistance against the machines. Machines are nearly wiped out, when they send the Terminator, an almost unstoppable cyborg back in time with one goal:murder Sarah , the future mother of John. By doing so, humans would already be wiped out. However, a human called Kyle Reese is also transported back in time to save Sarah. The film is great and I enjoyed it.


                
This is the first successful debut of Cameron as director. And he did it really nice. I am personally a man of movie taste, that really likes originality as the basic aspect. In this year (2010's), however, there are so many copycats in cinema. The rebirth of idea, is so rotten, that even the visual-effects is brand-new, the story is unpleasantly same. I just can't watch movie like that. Fortunately, I've found the era of idea treasure, it was in 1980's, the new beginning of action and science fiction. "The Terminator", is one of the first notable movie that defines its decade. It is somehow full of explosion, but still pay attention in its screenplay. Yeah, I know that the acting is not that good, but just be honest, the robot's acting, good or bad it is always the same. Don't mind the acting from the robot character, at least for this movie. A little awkward act don't break the entire movie, but there are other reasons that make it worth eight out of ten. My general statement for this film is astonishingly creative from the screenplay until the editing, mind the acting.Usually, it's hard to make something new even in the movie, and it is harder to be accepted by the general audience. But, I think it is just came at the exact time. From the time-line of cinema we know that "Star Wars" and "Alien" have started the trend of science fiction in the late 1970's. But, the firework of this genre is begin in 1980's, when there are so many "scientific" creature that starred the movie. From robot, UFO, alien, etc. So do the action-genre, it also began in 1980's, "Raiders of The Lost Ark" hit the movie-lovers with not so familiar genre. It can be concluded that "The Terminator" came at the right time. When the hype of all the trend is high, it released as one of the science fiction node. Just think, everyone, no matter who, must have been heard about this movie. It's just another effect of the trend. Even until now, they keep airing this movie over and over. Just for introduce the original-sequel of epic fiction.Let's talk about the movie itself. Don't worry, it's still human enough. Of all, the science fiction aspect I just love the future- fairy-tale spoken by future human. And, the unaccepted story by the nowadays human, that's all I mean in that movie. The feeling of being alone in the world, trapped in another world that nobody would care of you. Yeah, that pain only available in story, or in reality if we truly experienced it. The action is so incredible, society realizes another kind of suspense, the fast scene with so many explosion. That's the modern suspense. With the climax in the end of the movie and obvious yet unbeatable enemy, just other classic aspects of "The Terminator". In fact, it's the Cameron style to provide such a splendid cinema experience, that I think everyone would sit and watch until the movie is ended. Brilliant directing skill in middle era of cinema.Nevertheless, it is the birth of machine-fiction. I just admire the very idea, combined with technical aspects, this movie is nothing but pleasantly-sharp.


                
Arnold Schwartzenegger is the terminator, a cyborg sent to kill Sarah Connor(Linda Hamilton). The science fiction element is time travel with Arnie attempting to change the future by eliminating the mother of a leader of a resistance force against evil machines wishing to take over the world. James Cameron lets the full throttle action tell the story as the terminator has very few lines of dialog. Most of plot is constant car and motorcycle chases and large explosions, but hey this ain't Shakespeare, so just grab some popcorn, sit back and wait for the immortal "I'll be Back," delivered with such dead pan force by Schwarzenegger that I have to admit that the terminator is definitely a guilty pleasure.


                
I didn't see this till 2005. Since there was no way I could of seen it before since it's rated R.Anyways this is a cool movie. And the title that Arnold is famous for.This is taken place in L.A. of 1984. Out of nowhere a man appears out of thin air. And something about him isn't human. In another area another man appears out of thin air, and seems to act more human. At the other side of town an ordinary woman named Sarah Conner is your average girl of the 80s. Little does she know that her life will soon change forever.She hears the news about 2 woman getting murdered, it didn't seem too important to her, except those 2 victims are both named Sarah Conner. She soon gets the bad feeling that the killer will be after her next. Once she encounters the killer she gets saved by a man named Kyle Reese, who was given orders to protect her from the killer who is in fact a lethal machine from the future called a Terminator.Terminator is indeed a classic Sci-Fi film. I recommend this to those who like Sci-Fi flicks or 80s theme stuff.


                
i like the terminator better than the second one. a lot ofpeople like the second the best. the second one is a big-budget movie thats less entertaining than this one. ijust think it's more entertaining to see a human vs. robotthan a robot vs. robot. it's way more interesting to seewhat a human will come up with against a robot than what arobot will come up against another robot. plus the storyto the first terminator is more interesting and less confusing than the second one. all in all the terminatoris a thrill ride. i give the terminator *** out of ****


                
This is one of the FEW Sci-Fi movies I have watched over and over and over and (you get the point (others like it are CONTACT))... Although the plot is highly unrealistic (at least I think so), it makes you think "Do we entrust computers with too much? Should we make them so "smart" that they can do most stuff for us?" This is one of the movies where I am impressed with Arnold... He plays his role almost PERFECT (hardly any lines, just a cold, rutheless killing-machine). And Linda plays her role exelently too.The movies has a lot of everything needed for a good action flick: lots of action, lots of explosions and lots of chasing/stalking (and a tad of love), but it manages to balance in the grey area between too much and too little, making this a true masterpiece.The story of a world overrun by 'borgs, using the few remaining "fleshies" as slaves can easily get boring, but this movie keeps the excitement up from beginning 'till end... (Not too gory to watch with your girlfriend, but not too lovey-gooey to watch with the guys (have you seen 5-6 guys gathering for a night of a few beers, some pizza and Titanic?))There aren't many movies like this one...


                
And will probably not be accepted in today's harshing-by-the-minute counter-violence standards. It tells the story of a Terminator coming from 2029 to kill the Sarah Connor, mother of John Conner, the leader of the resistance to prevent him from ever being born. The resistance also sends someone through time to protect Sarah and a hunt ensues across LA.This movie is a straight action with a little love story that develops between Kyle, the protector, and Sarah, the protectee. It involves a lot of shooting, killing, maiming and ferocious and disgustingly beautiful scenes (The one where the Terminator fixes his hand and eye using scalpel).It has almost no element of drama, feeling and very little humor so I don't really know why I liked it, but I did. This movie is not for everyone, it should only be viewed by the action-freaks, disgust-lovers and the mature in mind with absolutley nothing to do.That's about it, too bad I can't get any good quotes out of this movie, all of the best ones are from the sequel, so go see that one too.


                
Oh what one man can do with his toys.....From score to visuals to action & suspense to entertainment!  This one's a monster that would give any B-movie and  economically bloated "blockbuster" a run for its flesh.


                
It's hard to review a real classic. What do you say about a movie that's not just a great piece of entertainment, but is significant in the history of film? The Terminator tells us the story of Sara Connor (Linda Hamilton), an ordinary young woman who works as a waitress and lives with a roommate, who learns she's to give birth to the savior of humanity. That's what she hears from Reece (Michael Biehn), a soldier sent back from a post-apocalyptic future where machines and men are at war. Reece was sent back to protect her from a killer cyborg (Arnold Schwarzenegger) that also traveled from the future to kill Sara and erase her son from existence before he could lead Mankind is a successful war against their mechanical enemies.When you say a movie is about a killer cyborg from the future and a main character who has to discover her inner hero, that doesn't necessarily sound like a classic, does it? It sounds just like another mediocre-at-best sci-fi melodrama, just like a couple dozen other forgettable B movies made every year that fill up the space between the really good films at the theater and on cable, another fancy premise used to tie together a bunch of explosions and special effects. But The Terminator is sooooo much more than that.Virtually everything in this movie is better than it has any reason to be. Though it has a clever idea, at its core The Terminator is a fairly basic adventure story. It's not inherently deep or complex or profound. There's no real social commentary to it or any examination of essential human conflicts. It's a chase movie. One with a genuinely clever angle, but still a chase movie. That sort of film doesn't necessarily demand superior writing, acting or directing but all of those things are present in The Terminator.I think the best way to demonstrate how good this movie is, is too simply take note of the little things done well in this film that you wouldn't see in lesser works. The casting of Linda Hamilton is one of those things. For the most important female character in the story, most films would usually cast an actress a lot more attractive than Hamilton. She's really only a bit prettier than the other women in the film and she's really not even as pretty as her co-star, Michael Biehn. But the story of Sara Connor is about a normal, unexceptional woman becoming the sort of person who changes human history. If Sara is a stunning beauty, it undermines the contrast between the ordinary and the extraordinary.Take a look at the two cops played by Paul Winfield and Lance Henriksen and the criminal psychologist played by Earl Boen. They're supporting characters whose purpose is to get the main characters from the first act into the third act. But even though they're not on screen for every long or have many lines, the actors make them into people just as real as Sara or Reece. And those three characters actually have some of the best and funniest lines of dialog in the whole movie.Consider the character of Reece. He has less than a handful of lines of dialog in the first third of the film, but we understand more about him than any other character through his actions and his memories. Or look at how the film handles the Inevitable Exposition Dump. In this sort of genre picture, whether it's sci-fi or horror or what have you, there's always a moment when some character has to explain what's going on to another character, and by extension to the audience. The Terminator has one of those scenes, but instead of it happening during a dead space when the story comes to a stop, most of it occurs in the middle of a car chase! You can also marvel as the visual sense Cameron brings to the entire film. From one of the earliest scenes where a naked Arnold Schwarzenegger stares down at nighttime Los Angeles to the final moment where Sara Connor drives down a lonely road as a storm approaches, Cameron is always reaching for something better than what you usually get from this sort of action flick.The Terminator didn't just help create one of the biggest movie stars in Hollywood history. It's one of the foundations of the modern sci-fi action genre. It's one of those films that help you appreciate just how good movies can be. It's a classic.
