Even in this post-Matrix era, this movie is still the ultimate blend of Orwell and action. If the definition of a classic is a movie that's often imitated but never equaled, then The Terminator is definitely a classic, because the increasing redundancy of its sequels and imitations merely demonstrates how good the original is.I wasn't fortunate enough to see this movie in the year of its release, the year predicted by Orwell's classic novel as a time when technology would be used to enslave people, but I did see it in about 1992, when the blockbuster success of the first sequel made me curious to watch the first film. At that time I preferred the second Terminator movie for being technically superior, but after all these years I now prefer the first film's raw intensity and kinetic energy.The Terminator was of course the breakthrough movie for James Cameron, and even after Aliens and Titanic it's still arguably his best-directed film. I challenge anybody to watch this movie and point out one single shot that needs improvement, because the direction of this movie is so fluid and precise that I can't think of one moment in the whole 100-minute running time that I would want to change.Cameron was and of course still is a notorious perfectionist who's very difficult to work with, but his perfectionism really paid off with this movie because it can be watched again and again without losing its entertainment value. He's a master of the small touch, as when the cop at the desk is filling out his paperwork with a small pencil and pauses in mid-sentence to look up and see the headlights coming towards him through the doors.Cameron also co-wrote the story, so this movie meant even more to him personally than merely a directing triumph. Supposedly he drew his inspiration from a nightmare in which he was being chased by a humanoid with one glowing red eye, and indeed the whole film has the urgent, oppressive atmosphere and calm logic characteristic of a nightmare. But of course he was probably also remembering subconsciously a couple episodes of The Outer Limits that he saw as a kid, which explains why he had to acknowledge the writer Ellison in the credits.Besides Cameron, this movie really belongs to the three lead actors. Arnold of course gives the performance of his career in this movie, but then so do Linda and Michael. Arnold's physical presence and harsh accent have never been put to better use in a movie, while Linda never had another role that required her to run through such a full range of emotions--sweetness and vulnerability, toughness and despair, etc.Michael has always been a B actor, but since The Terminator is essentially a B movie he fits in perfectly. His performance proves that an action hero is much more compelling when he's vulnerable not only to physical pain but emotional difficulties, to which his big, haunted eyes are put to good use. Watch him in this movie, as a man thrown out of his time but with a mission, and you'll see a perfect match of actor and character.In a typical action film, the amount of violence and bloodshed in The Terminator would be excessive, but in a movie about an unstoppable killing machine the envelope can be pushed. In one of the more memorable set-pieces, the Terminator takes on an entire police station full of thirty cops, and although I didn't exactly count them the viewer gets the sense of watching every single cop being gunned down.Ordinarily I wouldn't describe such a scene of slaughter as "cool," and yet there is some-thing undeniably cool about Arnold, with his sunglasses and leather jacket, going through the station with a shotgun and assault rifle and taking on everybody. Arnold's charisma helps the audience stomach the cold-blooded determination of the Terminator, but also the character's single-mindedness invites admiration: even as we're appalled by all the killing, we have to admit he does it rather well.This movie has more than enough gunfire, explosions and stunt-work (including some especially good stunt driving) to work purely as an action picture, but it's the film's anti-technology paranoia that makes it more than just an exciting ride. Notice, for example, the subtle role that Sarah's answering machine plays in the story: the cops can't get into touch with her because of it, while the message she leaves on it brings the Terminator right to her.In one memorable shot, the tracks of a construction crane become those of a killing machine in the future, crushing an endless row of skulls, which you can interpret any number of ways (is it a crack against urban renewal?). Also note that the criminal psychologist is enslaved by his beeper, and that even in the post-apocalyptic future in which machines have destroyed the world children still huddle around a television set in a desperate effort to be entertained.Some viewers may be turned off by this movie's preaching, but one quality that distinguishes The Terminator from its countless imitations is the strength of its convictions. Too many science-fiction/action movies fail under the weight of their own camp, but The Terminator is an exception because it actually has the nerve to take itself seriously. The bickering between seasoned cops Paul and Lance provides some levity, but at no point does the film make fun of itself.The only reason I'm not giving this movie a perfect 10 is because it is, after all, The Terminator, and not Casablanca. If people still remember it in forty years, then I'll give it a 10.
In one of the most intelligent and unhesitating science fiction films of the 1950s, Robert Wise equipped "The Day the Earth Stood Still" with technical marvels, chief among them the huge robot Gort<U+0097>the prototype, Michael Rennie suggests, for a global police force... Similar mechanical giants have been lumbering out of space-ships ever since...In "Devil Girl from Mars," the giant refrigerator robot Chai hunts for virile Scotsmen and find John Laurie, while in 'Target Earth,' the Venusian robots imitate Gort in projecting rays from their heads but take the idea a step further and make the rays lethal... In Stanley Kubrick's 'mythological documentary,' HAL 9000 computer is the most human character in the movie... But in James Cameron's breakthrough feature, there is, indeed, 'a storm coming in.' His 'Terminator' is a systematic metal, 'surrounded by living tissue,' an invulnerable cyborg, part man, part machine, with whom 'it can't be bargained with, it can't be reasoned with.' The film opens with two naked men appearing in two different parts of Los Angeles' darkened streets... One is tall and powerfully built, the other is compact and muscular... Both men seek the same person, a small and delicate blond woman by the name of Sarah Connor...Arnold Schwarzenegger is terrifying as the 'killer cyborg' who 'looks like Death rendered in steel.' He has searched the phone book and brutally shot to death other unfortunate women who bear the same name... He is sent back from the future to present-day (1984) to kill the mother of an unborn enemy... Schwarzenegger moves with inhuman speed bounding like a panther, scanning methodically with dominated blue eyes his surroundings, and in a perfect simulation of voice, he is on the track of his victim... He examines his weapons with precise movements, drives expressionlessly, and kills without pity, or remorse, or fear... It is a role that suits his talent perfectly... Michael Biehn seems scared by traumas of others wars... His face outlines a long burn scar... He tries to stop Schwarzenegger's attempts to be carried out... He is sinister in his long coat... His whole life has been combat... He identifies himself as Reese, a soldier from the future, assigned to protect Sarah at all costs... For him it is an honor, a chance to meet the legend... We feel his pain and anguish when he said: 'That terminator is out there. And it absolutely will not stop, ever, until you are dead!' Linda Hamilton is quiet convincing as the strong innocent prey, targeted for termination, momentarily disoriented, vaguely disturbed... She feels a blind panic boiling up within her, a lightning blot of terror greater than she could ever imagine... She is in a daze, paralyzed, shivering silently, uncontrollably... Her fragile personality disguises a hidden force she did't know she had...Cameron makes a successful move behind the lens in one of the most breathtaking modern action science fiction films...
I just saw a horrifying, touching, very good movie again; it's The Terminator.  Now to talk of it as great film, to compare it with American Beauty might seem idiotic--it's an almost unrelentingly dark, violent, frightening action movie, after all--but strip away the relentless action, strip away the technophobia, strip away the blatant dislike of cops and modern youth, strip away the poignant love story and, at its core, it's about an immature, essentially mindless girl becoming a strong, determined woman.  That's a theme more movies should have if we want girls to have strong role models.In the course of a few hours during which Sarah Connor realises that she is running for her life from a soul-less machine in human flesh that is implacably and violently determined to kill her, she transforms from a girl who can't balance her cheque book to a woman who can order a wounded, beaten man to "get on your feet, soldier."  She is clear-headed, not panicky, focused in crisis and incredibly courageous.  And it's not that she has lost her essential femaleness but that she's grown up.It's relentless, heartless violence appals and fascinates me.  It's gritty depiction of our society as a prelude to an even more horrific one in 2023 darkens my heart.  It's quickly developing love story touches me.  Its humor makes the dark places in me smile.  But most of all I am touched and fascinated by Sarah's precipitous transformation. As a good life exercise, ask yourself this: Would you have the courage to do what she does?9.5 out of 10.


                
There are actors,and there are movie stars.Arnold Schwarzenegger is without question a movie star,because every time he is on screen, he is,well,Arnold.There is a different Arnold in this film,and this     is what I like about it.He,for once,is playing the villain,and to perfection,I might add.He makes for one of the best screen villains ever in cinema history.It's a pity that his "good guy" image won't allow him to play the bad seed more often,but that's Hollywood, I guess.Aside from the thrilling sequel,this is perhaps Arnold's best work.


                
Watch it if you haven't.
Watch it if you haven't.
Watch it if you haven't.
Watch it if you haven't.


                
The Terminator was released in 1984 and its reputation has only grown since. As a matter of fact many today consider it a better film than even its sequel T2 which was a far bigger commercial and critical hit upon its release. Arnold sizzles in the role that truly defined him and it is easy to see why- He looks and acts exactly like a robot, right down to facial expressions(or lack thereof) and the stance of walk. Linda Hamilton and Michael Beihn are really good and it is a testament to Cameron's innate talent that he got such great acting from largely unknown actors. The pacing is excellent and the cinematography is suitably gritty and grainy. More than 30 years have passed since the film's release but the Terminator hasn't lost any of its punch and remains a science fiction classic.


                
The police psychologist interviewing Kyle Reese says it just right at one point: "I could make a career out of this guy!" Make that two careers, that of action hero Arnold Schwarzenegger and blockbuster filmmaker James Cameron.Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) is a struggling waitress who has just been stood up for a date. Another date is en route; unfortunately for her it's the proverbial date from hell. He may look like a studly Austrian-American bodybuilder, but he's really a hyperalloy metal chassis wrapped in human tissue sent from the future to kill her before she can give birth to the hope of mankind's survival. Can Kyle (Michael Biehn) save her before Arnold does his job?The title character is really a thing of beauty. As Kyle explains: "It can't be bargained with. It can't be reasoned with. It doesn't feel pity or remorse or fear. And it absolutely will not stop. Ever! Until you are dead."So what you have is "Jaws" for a new decade. And there can be no doubt what that decade is. From the Walkman worn by Sarah's roommate to the trendy neon sportswear on display at the "Technoir" nightclub, this is a 1980s movie through and through. And other than some clunky miniatures work set in the world Kyle came from, there's nothing wrong with that.The film has a lot more going for it. From start to stop this is, like "Jaws," a pop-action spectacular that never stops. Even the lengthy time-travel exposition scenes are suspenseful, because you are always alert for what might come through the door in the next second. Schwarzenegger makes his most lasting impression in an atypical bad- guy role, while Hamilton convinces with her ruffled beauty and sudden bursts of heroism. Biehn may do the best job, his face suggesting the anguish of his character's plight as well as his somewhat crazy hope for the future personified in Sarah.Cameron and producer Gale Anne Hurd fashioned a clever script with many brilliant touches that reward re-viewings. There's a scene between Kyle and Sarah that brings "Terminator's" greatness into focus for me. He's telling her of this photograph he has been holding of her, and spent many terrible nights staring at, wondering what she was thinking. Later, Cameron has a scene where we get to see what Sarah was thinking, and it's a doozy!Then there's the police vehicle the Terminator rides around in trying to get his mark. The slogan on the side of the car reads: "Dedicated To Serve." Perfect!Is the Terminator supposed to be from THE future, or just "one possible future"? Like Sarah says, a guy could go crazy thinking about this. Or at least have to wait until the next sequel. Hollywood can beat good ideas to death, but this film proves it will take a lot indeed to kill the Terminator.


                
It's made in 1984 and has incredible effect and so much powerful imagination.


                
It's funny really, writing a review for The Terminator these days just feels a little pointless, I mean anyone who wanted to see it would have done so already. In truth the effects work is a little creaky now but that doesn't matter, they were awesome in 1984. It's a ripper of a story awash with high energy action, rip-snorting characterisations and tech-noir atmospherics. It's place in the pantheon of science fiction films is assured, its influence on the genre undoubted, while the lead cast members cemented themselves in the sci-fi hall of fame.No more needs to be said really, The Terminator is a kinetic live action comic book of a movie, classy movie making, paced to precision and featuring a story that's brilliantly complex and utterly compelling. 9/10


                
In the future, we are at war with machines, and one man teaches the remains of Humanity how to win the war, that man is John Conner. The Machines send back a Killing machine, A Terminator (A super strong cyborg, that looks human) to kill the mother of mankind's saviour Sarah Conner (Linda Hamilton). John Sends a protector for Sarah, Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) who volunteered, so he could meet the great legends Mother. The trouble is Sarah is no warrior (yet) and the Terminator will never eat, never sleep and never stop until she is dead.Arnold Schwarzenegger is the Terminator in one of his best roles ever, and he leaves many dead in his wake, as he hunts down his target. Sarah and Kyle are on the run, and it seems that their fate is sealed as the relentless Killing Machine, shows no signs of remorse and proves to be unstoppable time and time again.A Fantastic final sequence brings this movie to an awesome climax, that will go down in cinematic history as one of the best.9/10
I just re-watched this movie; the last time I saw it was approximately 1987. For a 1984 production, this is superb science fiction. The Terminator, like Blade Runner, represents the best of the early '80s and even today has not really been surpassed despite decades of advances in CGI, digital processing, etc.The Terminator robot behaves more or less as one might expect. James Cameron is intelligent enough not to ruin the movie by anthropomorphizing the robot, in other words making it display emotions and behave too humanly. It's a computer created by computers, and acts accordingly. Arnold Schwarzenegger was at his physical peak and did a superb job conveying the sheer evil that this machine represents.Sarah and Kyle were well played. She was an "average girl" working at a busy family restaurant and dating mediocre guys in her spare time. We watch her grow into the strong soldier that she must become to defeat not only the Terminator but to raise a revolutionary hero who will save humanity.Kyle came across as a soldier who is very good at his profession, but has little exposure to the finer things, having grown up in a horrible post-apocalyptic world. He finally softens and opens up to Sarah, sparking a love affair that is heartbreakingly brief.You can enjoy the Terminator and simply ignore the fact that there are sequels. #2 is not bad, but quite superfluous and contradictory to the first movie in which it was made clear that "no one goes home, and no one else comes through" the time machine which was smashed by the humans. The first movie is an epic story and needs no sequels. But #2 is fun if you must see a little more Arnold-as-robot.


                
Terminator 2 has always been in my top 5 favourite movies of all time, however, over time my apreciation for James Cameron's first film has grown massively. This movie balances a very personal story with end of the world stakes, superbly well. Kyle Reese (Michael Bhien) is a very well written character, his motivations are set up nicely and his development throughout the movie is really Interesting. The Idea of Sarah Connor's (Linda Hamilton) character and what she means is so amazingly interestingand it really gets your brain going, which is a problem with movies today. The 80s time period in which this film was made, and obviously set, feels so fitting to the story. The monster that is the Terminator, played off course by Arnold Schwarzenegger, is simply terrifying. A big beefy man that is a machine designed to kill immediately creates this sense of nervousness. When you're watching this film you have this feeling to look over your shoulder, almost like It Follows (2014) does. Every action scene is gripping and feels haunting. The score by Brad Fiedel feels very dated at times and is kinda goofy but the main theme remains one of my favourites. This film to me did so many things for the first time in cinema history and doesn't get the credit somerhing like say Star Wars does. The Terminator is one of my all time favourites and really deserves appreciation.


                
This is one of my all-time favorite movies. Arnold plays his part well, but it's the other characters that really help this movie shine. James Cameron created a masterpiece when he made this movie. It was interesting, exciting, and frightening. It's the number one movie I recommend to people who like sci-fi movies, if they haven't seen it yet.


                
A classic Blockbuster, The Terminator plays more like a horror film than the action film franchise that it spawned. Schwarzenegger owns the whole movie with his minimal dialogue and enormous presence. Its amazing that with only fourteen lines of dialogue he became one of the most quotable characters of all time. He carries all of his weapons like extensions of his own arms and remains completely deadpan at all times. The acting of the movie is carried by Michael Biehn and Linda Hamilton, both of whom do an excellent job of their roles. Hamilton is a sweet but scared young woman on the run from something she doesn't understand. Biehn is a young soldier from a time far from now, with PTSD licking at the edges of his consciousness. The way Reese looks at heavy machines with apprehension is a tiny thing that speaks volumes, as is the non-existent reactions to deaths of his fellow soldiers in present day. Cameron's screenplay is a marvel, full of incredible dialogue and one of the best plot twists in cinema history. Whilst most of the visual effects are quite dated, they far from ruin the movie and the animatronic head of Schwarzenegger is certainly impressive for its time. The way Cameron cuts the movie around R-rated violence and unavailable visual effects (putting sunglasses on, brilliant!) actually contributes to the film's cult thriller status. I don't know why Schwarzenegger was given a posh combover at the start, but it is quickly messed up, and the film's score has lots of impressive horror moments but is probably better suited to this film than the very action-heavy Terminator theme we are used to today.


                
The Terminator follows a woman named Sarah Connor and two mysterious men who both appear naked in nighttime Los Angeles 1984 who both seem to be looking for her. One of them even seems to want to kill her and ruthlessly kills two other Los Angeles women named Sarah Connor. The movie is pretty well directed with the tone being ominous at the beginning and more exciting as the story moves on. The mystery element is what makes it work in the first half, with us having no idea who these men are and why they are looking for her. There turns out to be an interesting revelation for it and a cool sci-fi paradox at the end. The action scenes are exciting, but it would have been better to have it more science fiction and less action as we only see a small part of the film focusing on the future. The climax is also very exciting and well done. The acting is good but the main character is not very interesting or likable, just your average woman. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays his character perfectly as an unstoppable emotionless freak, which is the strongest part of the movie. This film would be good for sci-fi fans but even more for action fans.


                
Simply said, "The Terminator" is a great film, and even greater when you watch it with the mindset of someone discovering it in 1984, a time when Arnold Schwarzenegger's career was still to be consolidated, when James Cameron wasn't yet that billion-ma'King of the world', when "I'll be back" was still a quote that could be heard in any film without being associated to a bad-ass catchphrase with an Austrian accent, when Linda Hamilton still looked like a lovely doll begging for protective hugs.In 1984, moviegoers went to see an entertaining B-movie starring that Conan-the-Barbarian-guy whose speech pattern could hardly be taken seriously. Even the producers and director expected a backslash from the critics. Little did they know that they had just made a milestone almost as significant for the Sci-fi genre as "Alien" five years before, and that their humility would be rewarded by a close-to-unanimous praise and a lightning propulsion into Pop- Culture. Arnie became THE ultimate action-movie icon, and the rest is no less legendary.And the reason the film works is its remarkable simplicity in each aspect. First of all, the plot : an Artificial Intelligence company named Skynet created such technologically advanced robots that they rebelled against humans and provoked a nuclear holocaust until they were almost defeated by the Rebel Chief John Connor. As a robot sent to kill his mother before he'd exist, Schwarzenegger appears at night, completely naked and takes some civilian clothes before tracking Sarah Connor. But we're in a basic Sci-fi movie and the villain calls for a hero, this is where Michael Biehn intervenes, he looks strong but he's not the alpha male muscular type, which eases the empathy process.His mission is to protect Sarah Connor and kill the Terminator, so running away can only be a temporary option. Yet if the villain ever inspires one thing, it is not to confront him. The Terminator doesn't know what Sarah Connor looks like, but that's not an issue, any Sarah Connor can potentially be John's mother and is terminated Skynet-style. The murders are straightforward and chilling. At first, the Police don't notice anything odd with that brutal murder, until a second Sarah Connor is gunned down. What kind of serial killer works by the name? Anyway, the most urgent is to protect any Sarah Connor living in L.A., including an adorable waitress, so far from that girl-power archetype from the sequel.And this is one of the film's beauties, the absolute contrast between the robotic killer and the harmless target. And this is where the casting pays off; Arnold Schwarzenegger was certainly criticized for the limitations of his acting range, especially at a time where his accent was stronger, but here, he's given a role that only an actor like him could have portrayed perfectly: a cold and implacable killing machine. The Terminator was nominated #22 villain in the American Film Institute, but he's not sadistic, nor vicious, he's just programmed that way, which is why he's so scary. He's like a steamroller of brutality that will ignore every obstacle until it gets him to Sarah Connor.And the film wouldn't have worked had Linda Hamilton looked or played it like Ellen Ripley in "Alien", Obviously, a woman like Sarah Connor needs a protection whether from the cops or from Biehn, and some bits of luck that will prevent her from the fatal encounter. Indeed, when the Terminator realizes he didn't kill the right woman although she lived in Sarah's house, begins a breathtaking, spellbinding cat-and-mouse chase. There are shootouts, there are car chases, but they felt different because this time, the enemy doesn't try to get at them but to kill them, they're means as well as ends. The Terminator is an unstoppable death warrant, guided by fatality. Notice the scene when, for once, Sarah gets the illusion of being finally protected, in a commissariat. The Terminator's "I'll be back", especially when heard for the first time, sums up everything, no matter how far away you try to push him, he'll get back to you.And this, resonates as the voice of fatality, the omen of an inevitable confrontation, something that neither Biehn nor Sarah can't avoid, the future has come to haunt them, and if Sarah is really the mother of a future fighter, even she will have to express that 'fighting' part of herself. Whether you look at the half-empty or half-full glass, you'll see "Terminator" as a predestination or fatality movie. And I guess this is why the appellation neo-noir isn't gratuitous. Noir is about people who try to escape from a painful certainty but can only triumph over it by confronting it, at the cost of something precious such as their innocence, their optimism, their faith on life or humanity.And 'The Terminator" is mostly set at night, it features characters who hide from these robots that remind them the apocalyptic future they carry on their hands, their own responsibility. Of course, bonds ought to be made and we have some clues that the predestination thing will provide some curious loops that don't quite respect the orthodoxy of time travels. But the film isn't about time travels, it's about a sense of duty and responsibility. And in a way "The Terminator", as a villain, is an inspiration for the heroes, as much as he must kill them no mater what, they have to resist and to defeat him at any costs, the measure of a great antagonist is the degree to which he allows the heroes to overcome their weaknesses.As a matter of fact, the whole trilogy invites humans to question their condition, from being masters to slaves of the technology, what you can control can control you, it's all up to us to take the control of our lives back. That's what Sarah Connor will do, and this is why she becomes such a great heroine, the perfect match for such a great villain.


                
In the not-too-distant future, machines rule the Earth and are locked in combat with a gallant band of freedom fighters led by their leader John Connor. Soon a murderous cyborg the T-800 (Arnold Schwarzenegger) - a remorseless, relentless bogeyman with a bone- crushing steel skeleton and a soul-piercing red diode glare - is sent back in time from the future to kill the mother of the as-yet- unborn leader of the human rebellion. Back in present-day Los Angeles, his mother – a timorous pushover waitress Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) - is unaware of her role in the struggles to come, until the arrival of our titular terminator, whose only purpose is to kill her and thereby change the future. Her only hope is a bashful guerrilla fighter Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) who has followed the T-800 back through time to prevent her death and evade any and all attacks from the killer cyborg, while gradually forming a romance with her throughout the mission to preserve her life. Can the Terminator track Sarah down and change the course of the future?The story is deceptively tricky: In comparison to today's packaged thrillers, this is a surprisingly vicious little film, filled with indiscriminate killings and a rough-edged feel that makes it utterly compelling. James Cameron's direction of the ensuing chaos is masterful, and the characterization of the violence has something agonizingly original about it. He manages to generate maximum excitement from the very first frame and the dynamic thrills are maintained right up to the nerve-jangling climax. What really propels the movie, though, isn't the savagery but a well-written and taut screenplay with a nice eye for sharp detail that doesn't tend to drift off into the occasional ponderous bits. There's real heart and soul here, along with Arnold's best-ever performance - as a lumbering slab of dumb, destructive strength. Hamilton's performance as the bewildered waitress who will unwittingly become the savior of the human race is terrific. Biehn shines as Sarah's knight in shining armor.The Terminator grabs us right away and carries us to the end with roller-coaster action sequences and clever time-travel twists. What it results in is arguably the best science fiction thriller of all time that throttles you with the air of a demented ballet.


                
After hearing many times to watch terminator series and seeing good reviews finally saw all the terminator movies over the weekend. Being a big fan of sci-fi genre, must say this movie establishes another incredible sci-fi universe like alien,matrix,etc. even though last 2 movies were disappointing. Even if the effects looked very dated, still its a evergreen classic which will be remembered for a long time. The dreadful and menacing 'Terminator' played stylishly by Arnold Schwarzenegger is one of his career defining roles. It feels like he was destined for the role. The Terminator Theme by Brad Fiedel with the clanging metal matches the character of Terminator perfectly and is one of the best themes of all time alongside likes of Star Wars. James Cameron makes skillful use of low-budget effect with a wonderful story. I admired his work in 'Titanic' and 'Avatar', but now I have realized his best work dates back in the 1980s-90s with the best film being 'Aliens'. A mysterious looking man with no clothes on emerges out of nowhere in L.A. in 1984, he seems to be hunting a woman named Sarah Connor. Similarly another man also emerges who is also looking for the same woman. As it turns out this latter guy is there to protect the woman from the earlier mysterious guy who isn't actually a man but machine called 'Terminator' whose mission is to kill Sarah. Both are sent from a post-nuclear war future where man and machine are fighting, and the fate of Sarah is very important in the whole premise. Well the film kind of shows that the Discovery of Arnold's character is a Terminator a surprising moment as enough suspense gets built up. But since we are already told in the beginning that in future there man vs machine war, so I wouldn't consider it as spoiler. Also as soon as you have time-travel involved in Sci-fi movies the emergence of some paradox is imminent unless you draw line or stick with assumptions. The whole franchise is affected by it, but I feel its the least in The Terminator.Keeping aside the time-travel the movie's spotlight is its horrific and suspenseful pursuit of Sarah by Terminator. Machines have no feelings like emotion or fear, thus the ruthless Terminator has become like a horror icon! Also there are scenes of the future earth where the nuclear war destruction and the terror of the machine ravaging the lives of humans.These make of think of the path the human race is headed. Brad Fiedel score makes the atmosphere even more scary. Here we have another blend scifi-horror like the 'Alien' and 'The Thing' only with more action. But what makes Terminator a classic on its own is its characters and story. Both Linda Hamilton and Michael Biehn were excellent. Without any doubt Arnold was bad- ass and the best. Also I got to enjoy the famous dialogues like 'I'll be Back' or 'Come with me if you want to live' which have become so iconic that all the terminator sequels use them so as to entertain the fans of this original film. The pacing is slightly slow but suspense keeps you engaged. Overall if you think of time it was released, it is a classic and breakthrough film in its genre. Despite not having great effects and me watching it at a time where sci-fi movies aren't that rare 'The Terminator' entertains a lot. It is because it has great story and splendid characters and acting. The thing many special-effect driven sci-fi movies miss nowadays. RATING: [4.5/5]


                
Arnold Schwarzenegger, in his most famous role, plays a brutal killing machine sent into the past to kill the mother of the resistance leader who leads the humans in the war against the machines in the future. A human soldier is sent back in time to protect her. Cue loads of sublime science fiction mayhem. The Terminator is inevitably dated due to the small budget, but it's a great time at the movies. It is a science fiction classic and completely deserves to be, thanks to the interesting story and strong action sequences. While it's a fast paced and snappy movie which hurtles along at breakneck speed, there's a moving relationship in the film and the elements of time travel give the story unexpected depth, which ensure the film certainly does not represent its iconic antagonist. Arnold Schwarzenegger dominates the screen in brilliant badass fashion and while he doesn't have many lines, he delivers them excellently and is an intimidating and threatening villain, although he's still not as cool as R2 D2 and C3PO.The brilliantly made action ensures the film crackles with high octane thrills and genuine energy. There are too many chase sequences in the film, but at least they remain fun despite some repetition. It's overall a very well made film and delivers thrill after thrill. The runtime isn't overlong and it's easy to watch and enjoy. Acting is all around good and Sarah Connor, although she really became a cool character in the sequel, isn't your typical damsel in distress. Kyle Reese is also a very good character. In General, The Terminator is an iconic and entertaining movie which has surprising depth and plenty of fun action. It's not the best science fiction film ever and can't help but look slight next to its dream sequel, Terminator 2 Judgement Day, but mostly it's held up pretty well and even though the budget is relatively small the effects and surprisingly convincing. James Cameron's films can leave one cold, but he certainly knows how to turn millions of dollars into ultra cool cinematic art and put butts on seats.9/10


                
"The Terminator" is two things that are very good to be: a movie that is of its time, and a movie for all time. From the opening minutes it is almost fetishistically contemporary. A superimposed text says the events of the film take place "tonight," a rather hokey tactic, most often seen in the horror genre, that may create a sense of immediacy for some first-run viewers but that becomes increasingly ironic as time takes its toll on the fashion, the music, the hair, and so on. "Terminator"'s first act is an onslaught of such tell-tale signs of the time, and the time in question is peak 1980s. This is not a bad thing. The movie so successfully captures the spirit of its era that later movies set in its milieu often appear to be, and in many cases undoubtedly are, copying it. It wasn't the first movie to take place in fume- and trash-filled urban alleys and neon-lit dance clubs, or to feature independent women who do things like have sex and ride motorcycles without prompting censure or even comment, but it was arguably the best and best-looking and most influential movie to do these things at this time. In other words, it is an icon of 1980s film.It is also an icon of film generally. It accomplished that even grander feat through a combination of brilliant achievements. First, the casting, particularly of Arnold Schwarzenegger. His early acting career benefited enormously from the existence of roles that nobody else could have played quite as well. Conan the Barbarian was a near-Neanderthal: strong, serious, a mythic figure of great stature and few words. The Terminator is the same, though he kills for different reasons. Arnold is menacing, darkly funny, and extremely cool in the role, all at once. Second, the script. It serves timeless lines on a silver platter for Schwarzenegger and the other two leads, and they all three seem to know exactly what to do with them. They take soundbytes and throw them at us like sticks of dynamite, and when they land we feel them: "Come with me if you want to live," "I'll be back," and "You're terminated, f*cker." (The last one is another reminder that we're in the 1980s, a long-ago time when action and sci-fi movies were sometimes made for adults, not just teens. The language here is strong, the violence is not all bloodless, and the sex is very much on- screen.) Third, a time-travel plot that is unusually well thought out, capable of being communicated without too much belabored exposition, and that leaves plenty of room for further exploration without raising too many unanswered questions. It is strong conceptual ground on which to build a media empire.Like 1983's "WarGames" (which also featured a motorcycle-riding female lead), the central idea in "Terminator" is that computers might one day destroy humanity. Unlike "WarGames," which approached the subject from a software angle and took its cues from real programming concepts, "Terminator" casts a tangible piece of hardware in the role of unstoppable stalker killer. This leads to perhaps its only real weakness as a movie. Toward the end, as plot recedes and special effects (mostly stop motion) come to the fore, it begins to feel too much like the horror movies that it echoes in its opening text. The false endings that typify that genre are as predictable as ever, and the Terminator becomes just another riff on Michael Myers. But if the penultimate scenes are derivative, they are nevertheless satisfying, and the film ends on a note that provides closure and leaves you eager for more.
Arnold Schwarzenegger, has proved that he can play as a Barbarian, Hercules & another version of himself in Stay Hungry. Let's see if he can play as a savage & terrorizing cyborg.So following my last review, I decided to stay with the theme, by going with the original masterpiece, that showed viewers & critics alike that films that are visuals juggernauts can tell a complex & non-generic story. So the plot is about a cyborg assassin from the year 2029, who is sent back to the 80's to stop the birth of future resistance leader: John Connor. But due to John not being born yet, the "Terminator" as they referenced it, was instead forced to terminate Sarah Connor. Now the film did two things to audiences: 1. It showed that Schwarzenegger, could play a different & diverse role compared to his standard Barbarian & Weightlifter roles. 2. Sci-Fi has become a serious & cool genre as of this film, due to the film being a cult classic, it cemented along with Star Wars, that Sci-Fi's were serious & cool.Actors & Actresses who stared in the flick included: Michael Biehn as the futuristic protector of Sarah Connor & love interest: Kyle Reese & Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor a young woman living life until, her life is changed forever.As a film Terminator earned a total of: $78,371,200 (Worldwide), however it was amongst number # 21 in 1984's Highest Grossing Films, picking up: $38,371,200The film was a major success to an extent, that it sported a huge & memorable blockbuster sequel: T2: Judgement Day. The Terminator Franchise is one of Sci-Fi's crown jewels including: Star Wars. This was the bases for the next 3 films in the franchise to follow & results are: T2: Judgement Day & T3 Rise of Machines. But those films will be talked about in another review.So my rating for this film is a 9.2 out of 10, it is a well crafted film that James Cameron should be commended on. So if you are a fan of awesome visuals, compelling stories & overall great Sci-Fi, then look no further than The Terminator.So for more reviews, stay tuned to IMDb. This is JZNINJA & "I'll be back"
In the year 2029, the ruling super-computer Skynet, sends an indestructible cyborg back in time to 1984 to kill Sarah Connor before she can fulfill her destiny and save mankind.This film starred: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton & Michael Biehn.THE TERMINATOR was released in 1984 and was directed by James Cameron and it is still recognised as one of the best sci-fi films of all time 30 years after it's release.In my opinion THE TERMINATOR is a quality film, however I do prefer TERMINATOR 2 to this original even though this is very good, the sequel is one of my favourite films. When you start watching this film the 1 hour 47 minutes running time flies by and before you know it the end credits is up on your screen. I highly recommend this film to all you SCHWARZENEGGER fans.****/***** Very Good


                
Assassination and murder often makes for a thrilling story as it is, but what if the murderer happens to be a machine from the future? Unstoppable, invincible, unable to feel pain or remorse, unable to deviate from its programming. The terminator is an inherently scary figure, partly because of the traits mentioned above, and also because it comes from a scary future ravaged by nuclear war and a robot apocalypse.The first Terminator film delivers its premise impeccably, and does so with an agreeable amount of action. Granted that all the sequels have surpassed this film in terms of action, The Terminator still delivers plenty of thrills as the titular machines brutally hunts down its targets. Most of the movie is comprised of chases: car chases, foot chases, with intermittent shootouts, explosions, and fights. In spite of this, the film drags very little; it's actually quite tight, as it effectively uses the space in between the action to develop the story and characters.And the story is quite sound, partly because of its unique premise, and largely because it's told really well. It makes phenomenal use of flashbacks to reinforce the background and characters of the story. Its focus on the characters is superb, and you really grow to care for them by the film's end. Overall, the film shows great depth and detail to make it stand above and beyond most other sci-fi flicks.The film looks great, with excellent photography and editing. A lot of scenes, such as the nightclub scene, leaves a great lasting impact. Acting is great: I love Linda Hamilton, Michael Biehn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger in their respective roles. Writing is pretty decent. This production has plenty of good, utilitarian sets, props, costumes, and special effects. Music is really weird, but very moody and appropriately industrial.Highly recommended! 4.5/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Perfect | Film: Very Good)


                
The Terminator is a great movie with a terrific,action packed story from start to finish and a good cast.The movie is very well known,still today,and all that credit has to go to Arnold Schwarzenegger,who plays a breathtaking performance as the Terminator himself from start to finish,his performance is brilliant,and no one else could have done a better job.A robotic assassin from the future comes to kill Sarah Connor,who's son will grow up to lead humanity in a war against machines,its up to Kyle Reese to protect Sarah. -4/5 Stars


                
Continuing my plan to watch every Arnold Schwarzenegger movie in order, I come to his second movie of 1984 The Terminator.Plot In A Paragraph: A cyborg (Arnie) is sent from the future with one mission. Kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) a young woman whose life will have a great significance in years to come. Sarah has only one protector, Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) also sent from the future. To those that say Arnie can't act, I say watch this movie. He is TOTALLY believable as a non human!! I say that in jest of course, but it is his best performance thus far.He never could have took the role if Dino De Laurentis didn't release him from his 10 year Conan contract. He agreed, but asked Arnie to keep making Conans as long as they were profitable (Thankfully after the lukewarm reception to Conan The Destroyer, Dino never wanted to make another) and to make an action movie for him when he had a script. Arnie agreed, and was free to make other movies away from Dino. The $750,000 Arnie was paid for this was less than the $1,000,000 he was paid for the last Conan movie, but boy does it pay off. James Cameron is a genius, how all this came out of his head is amazing, and this is only his second feature film is beyond me. It's scarily brilliant. Everything is brilliant. The script is brilliant, the casting is brilliant, the performances are brilliant, the way it's shot is brilliant, Brad Fiedel's score is brilliant, Stan Wilsons special effects are brilliant, everything is brilliant. I've already praised Arnies performance, but Michael Biehn is also brilliant as the battled scarred, but brave Kyle Reece and Linda Hamilton is excellent as Sarah Connor too. I can't fault a single performance in the movie. A few dodgy effects here and there, and the implausibility of the plot (I still can't get my head around how Kyle can be John Connors Dad lol) are not enough to ruin anything. In his autobiography Total Recall, Arnie talks about how the role of the Terminator only having 18 lines worried him, he worried people think he was either avoiding speaking parts, or worse, most of of his dialogue was edited out because it wasn't working. He also discusses how bad the promotion was for this movie. They had it as a standard B movie, he says how Cameron begged them to change the strategy of it, but they would not listen to him!! They were only interested in promoting Amadeus. The movie succeeded because of solid reviews and good word of mouth. The Terminator grossed $38 million at the domestic Box Office making it the 21st highest grossing movie of 1984. Surprisingly neither was enough to beat Conan The Barbarian as a career high for Arnie at that point. In a way, it's lucky for Arnie, Terminator wasn't a giant blockbuster, as he may have been typecast as a bad guy. As it was, he did a favour for Dino.


                
