Before I get to talking about the film overall, I think I should point out to anyone who wants to see "Once Upon a Time in America" that it is a very graphic movie. While it's rated R, it's a 'hard R'--and I could almost see it getting an NC-17 if shown today--especially when much more benign films like "A Dirty Shame" was recently given the NC-17 distinction. In the film, you'll see closeups of a guy peeing, lots of blood, a kid on toilet, lots of teen sex, a very, very explicit rape, and a closeup of a guy getting shot in the eye. This is not necessarily meant as a criticism (after all, this is a gangster film) but you cannot ignore this when you discuss the film.This film is a long and VERY deliberately paced epic film about a small group of men in the Jewish mob. I say deliberately paced, as the famed director, Sergio Leone, took a very, very slow approach to the film. To me, this was a good and bad thing. On one hand, it was beautiful-- the camera-work was great and the look of the film was striking. On the other, the film was nearly four hours long YET most of the characters seemed underdeveloped and vague. In many ways, this makes it reminiscent of Leone's "Once Upon a Time in the West"--but I think "West" had a tighter story and more clearly understood characters. The film also was much like this earlier Leone film due to its musical score by Ennio Morricone--though the extensive use of Zamfir's panpipes did set the film apart. For me, I loved and disliked the film at the same time. I sure can respect it--but also was depressed that the film never seemed to completely gel.One aspect of the film I would like to talk about and that is the rape scene. If you see the film, you'll know exactly which scene I am talking about. Part of me liked it because it tended to say that although DiNero's character seemed nice compared to the other thugs, he STILL was a vile thug down deep. And, making the rape so intensely realistic further clarified that this was NOT a sex act or sexy--it was violent and vile. On the other hand, I sure felt uneasy seeing such a super-violent scene begin portrayed THIS vividly--it could easily shake you up or cause strong reactions in rape victims viewing the film.By the way, early in the film, Jennifer Connelly says 'Pesach'. This is the Jewish word for 'Passover'.Also by the way, the makeup was often brilliant. DiNero was aged magnificently by the makeup artists. On the other hand, Elizabeth McGovern's makeup late in the film was pathetic--especially when they slapped on harlequin-like makeup to try to hide the fact that she STILL looked very young. This was sad--especially because in this same scene, DiNero looked 30 years older than her.Overall, I think there's a lot to like and a bit not to like about the film. I think that it is a bit overrated--and reviewers that say it's just as good or better than "The Godfather" should maybe back off a bit on the hyperbole. It is NOT another "Godfather"....and the only film that MIGHT get away with that claim is "The Godfather II". "Once Upon a Time in America" is worth seeing but is also very flawed--and a bit confusing, most likely due to the studio hacking out major portions of the film.
The 229 minute version of Once Upon a Time in America is too long because there is a repetitiveness in the presentation of the themes. Having said that, it is also true that the attention to detail and the lavish sets make the nearly four our of watching never a chore. Then there is also Robert De Niro who lifts the movie above an ordinary gangster flick. Arguably, one of the best things about the movie is the music, but since God Bless America was used so movingly in the ending of The Deer Hunter (also with De Niro), it was in poor taste to use it as the final song six years later again so stridently. The actors playing the gangsters as boys and those playing the gangsters as adults are all fine. With all that, what a pity that the movie finally fails. It does so in the sense that the ending is a farce, something that sits poorly with an epic movie, and it does so in the sense that it makes the mistake of practicing alchemy, of distilling friendship and love and sensitivity from a group of extraordinary vicious men, murderers whose sense of humor is expressed in swapping babies in a nursery. The viewer is asked to believe that these cockroaches are capable of great sensitivity. Deborah calls one of them a cockroach early on and she should have taken herself more seriously for she could have known she was right. The director wanted it both ways, violence and love undiluted from the same source. Kiss kiss, bang bang: it can be done, but not like this.


                
I've seen the short version of this, and the long, and believe me, youmust rent the long version. The short one doesn't do it justice. This isan epic and deserves to be seen as such. It's got great performances byDeNiro and Woods as childhood best pals, and the women areextraordinary- Elizabeth McGovern proves again to be an Americantreasure, and Jennifer Connely- yes, that's her!- is perfectly cast asthe child Elizabeth McGovern. This film also has one of the best scoresyou'll ever hear.


                
I'm a great fan of Leone's work, and this is probably my favourite movies of his. It is a very modern Sergio Leone, without losing his style.It might be long, but worth every minute without ever dragging. There are hardly any movies that handle non-linear story telling better than this one. The beautiful cinematography and always fitting music emerges you in almost every decade of the first half of the 20th century. The great story is brought to life with a great cast, especially with an alway great Robert DeNiro. It has every aspect of a good Gangster movie. So take an evening and watch this movie. A must see for any movie fan.


                
The old genres of classic Hollywood were bundles of convention and cliché, familiar in their tone and romantic in their recreation of an idea. And while Hollywood itself would change massively in the modern era, those movie stylings lingered on in the memories of those who had grown up with them. Hence it was just as likely to be European filmmakers who were documenting America's history on screen, albeit through the haze of genre-tinted spectacles. Once Upon a Time in America is celebrated Italian director Sergio Leone's tribute, not to prohibition-era America, but to the classic gangster genre which once claimed to portray it.Perhaps the most striking thing about Once Upon a Time in America is its wealth of detail and compelling atmosphere. The production design is really impressive, with sets to feast the eyes on and realistically thronging street scenes. Leone and his art director Carlo Simi have struck a balance between throwing in stuff that makes sense in context and stuff that conjures up a certain feeling in the scene. A good example is when Noodles flees the opium den and makes his way to Moe's, and the streets are strewn with streamers for a forlorn, after-party appearance. Many of the 1922 scenes feature billows of smoke rising up from vents, for that dreamy, wistful look. Sound design plays an important part here, the creaking of a lift creating a tense build-up to a shooting in the way that one of Ennio Morricone's dirges might have done in a Leone Western. Morricone's music is still a key presence of course, tying various thoughts together across the decades, for example the eerie honky-tonk Yiddish theme that plays to introduce Moe's place in the opening scenes and again in the first set of 1968 scenes.The principle cast for this one are chosen from the front ranks of contemporary Hollywood talent. Robert De Niro was by this time the archetypal New York mobster, so clearly the obvious choice, even if he has to swap his trademark Italian American accent for a Bronx one. He is however a little more serene and meditative than his usual exuberant gangster acts, and the quiet dignity with which he portrays the older Noodles is especially good. James Woods provides excellent support. I love his spontaneous anger in kicking Tuesday weld out of the office after a few words from De Niro. Character actors Burt Young and Danny Aiello do the job of making a memorable impact during their brief appearances, Aiello in particular giving us some great comic relief. Tuesday weld is very good too. A handful of the other cast members are guilty of a little overacting, but I'm not in a vindictive enough mood to name names.Once Upon a Time in America may be a far cry from the surreal expanses and moustachioed bandidos of Leone's Westerns, but much of the director's visual style has survived intact. He's still just as in love with the gritty close-up as ever, bringing an unusual prominence to the mole on Robert De Niro's right cheek. For some of the actor's roles this would be covered by the make-up department, or at least the director would favour his left profile. Here however not only is De Niro's juvenile counterpart given a conspicuous mole for consistency, Leone even shows De Niro at three-quarter angles against a dark background, highlighting the mole in outline, for example when he looks at the photo of Deborah at Moe's. It's pertinent, adding an obvious flaw to those otherwise handsome features. And then of course there is Leone's painstaking slowness and protracted non-dialogue scenes, which are what make this the 230-minute behemoth that it is, since there's only really enough script here for a two-hour movie. As usual, Leone makes these unspoken moments a dance of tense mannerisms and darting eyes, which (just about) renders them watchable.But perhaps it is Once Upon a Time in America's gargantuan sprawl that is its undoing. There is nothing wrong per se with a 3hr+ movie, nor is there necessarily a problem with slow, methodical pacing. The trouble is that this picture sacrifices narrative clarity for its stylisation. I don't mean the confusing timeline-hopping; that's nothing that a repeat viewing won't sort out. However there is clearly something missing and in spite of their length some segments of the movie seem horribly truncated. There ought to be at least one more 1922 scene that brings out the comradely warmth between the boys, and between Max and Noodles in particular. It's not enough that we see it – we as an audience have to feel it. Instead we seem to be hurrying from one key incident to another with no time for character development. And in 1933 Max and Noodles seem continually at odds – there is not enough evidence that their friendship is still strong despite their disagreements, and this means the final scenes in 1968 do not have weight they ought to. Some parts of the story seem to trail off into nothing, for example the reappearance of Joe Pesci at the end of the hospital sequence. Instead the screenwriters have focused on working little bits of symbolism into the dialogue and imagery (for example, "the key to your clock" and "I'll do something with your time"), but have not worked nearly as hard on the emotional continuity. As a result Once Upon a Time in America is an interesting and occasionally entertaining collection of references to gangster movie history, but it is a failure as a work of cinema.


                
I had waited for a year for my pre-ordered DVD to arrive. Having seen a large piece of this movie 15 years ago I eagerly sat down to watch the new ultimate version in it's original glory via a beautiful new digital transfer. I'm sorry to say I was quite disappointed. It is so very slow and self indulgent in most places that it was hard to sit through. Many beautiful shots, sets, and lots of great acting and cinematography but it is truly from another time, when 15 second close ups were acceptable where 3 seconds would suffice. No comparison to Coppola's work.


                
This film has its visually beautiful moments, poignant scenes, and revealing dialogue -- very few, scattered one per ten minutes of viewing. It also has mindless gore, unrealistic rape, and laughable motivation -- lots of them. Read another review for details.So, why was this film made rather than a much better one?In "High Noon," the tenuous social institutions can't stand up to a few bad guys; the institutions are weak, though not evil. Ditto for "Who Shot Liberty Valence." We resort to individual violence as a last resort against evil. That's not the case here. Institutions are strong, just evil. Cops are on the take, protect scabs, ignore crime, while bosses hire gangsters to machine-gun union organizers, politicians organize business and union fronts for crime. It's everyone for themselves. There is no morality, just the strong and the weak. The time in "Once Upon a Time in America" runs from the start of Prohibition to end of the sixties, so this is most of 20th century America, including a period where they had some of the strongest, most responsive institutions in world history.It is not America itself that is of interest here -- 35 years of history are skipped over without a mention and another 12 years get only passing reference. There is a perception of something about America, something about those American westerns and gangster movies of someone's childhood otherwise spent under oppressive European institutions, something freeing about amorality and lack of social control, something justifying disobedience and adolescent rebellion. I am reminded of "Love Actually" and the character certain that if he gets to America girls will love his British accent and fall into bed with him. In the film, they do. And in this film, America is supposed to swoon over the Italian schoolboy daydreaming his American Gangster life.


                
I saw this film when it first came out and it did seem like a masterpiece, powerful often shocking and different to any other film that was made in the early to mid eighties.However watching the film the other day i could only notice its flaws and it didn't seem such a classic. 1,It seems far too long,pointless scenes with lots of talking are really dragged out and you wonder why? 2,Nearly all of the female characters have really shocking low morals to the point where their not believable and you feel its just where the film is trying to add sex to spice things up.And the only female who has any decency gets raped. 3,None of the characters are likable,so you don't really care what happens to them. 4,The music doesn't seem to fit the scenes and is played far too much to the point where it becomes annoying. 5,Deborah as a child had brown eyes then as an adult she develops blue eyes.And none of the other grownup members of the gang look anything like the teenagers they were supposed to be. I know this all sounds very nit-picky as on the whole it is a very well made film,the settings are good,the costumes are great and so is most of the acting.From a historical point of view its very interesting as it shows you how people lived back in the early 30's during the prohibition and depression years.But on the whole i don't feel its the classic i once thought it was.
I wanted to see this for a long time, and finally bought the 2003 2-disc DVD director's cut recently. It's definitely one of De Niro's best, and I thought the cast generally were pretty good too. The locations are sumptuous and beautifully lit, and you are really drawn into the 1920's/30's. Less satisfying for me were the 60's segments, not because they were less visually convincing, but because I don't think they were completely coherent. The shot where De Niro is walking along the street with the money and obviously nervous suddenly morphs back to the 30's, and there's no apparent reason for this little sequence other than that jump-back. I also found it hard to believe that De Niro could not recognise James Woods as an older man - he hadn't changed that much and they were supposed to be best friends! The other weak point was that Elizabeth McGovern still looked far too young in the dressing room sequence, and she seemed remarkably happy to see Noodles, despite the fact that their previous encounter was when he raped her (albeit 30 years previously). The jumping forward/back in time was cleverly handled, but I can't help thinking that a chronological flow might be less distracting. Anyway, enough negativity. This is still a great film (definitely in the top 10 of modern gangster movies), and really involves you in the life of the key protagonists. A special mention for Joe Pesci too, who had really only a cameo, but was as excellent as ever.
Although great, "America" just doesn't stand up.As a whole, Leone's work "America" suffers from one glaring error- poor editing.  [And yes, I saw & own the 3 hr. + version.] There is of course, the notoriously annoying phone scene, where a phantom phone rings, and even when a character picks up a phone, it is not _the_ phone which has now been ringing for the past five minutes and quells the middle scenes which are important to putting together the entire jigsaw of a movie that Leone dumped on us.  There are numerous transgressions committed by Leone that were completely unnecessary.  For example, there is a long shot of Noodles walking across the street.  The movie is so long, that it did not need this added one minute of something that we've already seen and could have easily been accounted for with the addition of a small ellipse- it adds nothing to the movie, and we are forced to endure another minute of Leone's overindulgent splendor.  Part of what makes the film work is the strange, disjointed continuity.  Time shifts from Noodles as a young man to Noodles in his old age with a simple jump cut.  This, although interesting at first, is also rather annoying.The positive sides are numerous: the haunting score by Morricone floats throughout, binding each interwoven sequence together with a sense of tragedy, amidst the beautiful set decoration that in my opinion, is not paralleled amongst similar period pieces.  The shock of young Dominic's cold murder and the retaliation that follows is truly amazing and stands as a testament to the brutality of the times.  The movie wraps around you, especially in the "friendship" parts of the movie, with the early children, where you get a real glimpse into the native nature of each character, and the tightening friendships that illuminate the protagonists, especially Noodles and Max.  By the end, this massive epic leaves you with a sense of completion, and a sense of sadness.7/10.


                
I really don't know what to make of this movie. I am a staunch Sergio Leone fan, his spaghetti westerns and his once upon a time movies. But this movie is kind of a mixed bag for me. Like GODFATHER III, this is a case of a great story, but at the end of the movie, you're left asking that famous immortal question..."WHAT?" This is a great journey that in the end, goes nowhere. I have no problem with a long story, or with the jumping back and forth in time, or with the many plot lines. It's just that at the end, this great story began to collapse under its own weight and we got an ending that didn't make any sense. And I don't buy into the theory that this was all an opium-induced dream. If that were the case, this whole damn story would be totally pointless, just a waste of time. I doubt very seriously that Leone would cheap shot his audience like that. It would be taking an awful long time to say, in effect, "I was only kidding, folks." A joke is a joke, but for that much effort? Eh...Like I said, it told a great story, but it doesn't seem to have an ending. Just Noodles with that goofy smile and you don't really know why, other than he's stoned out of his gourd. 7 out of 10.
The movie opens very nicely with the ending. It uses the back and forth flow very well. The use is very clear with the make up on Robert DeNiro. The story also flows back and forth in a not too often frequency that it confuses the audience. However, the story presents only a few conflicts in the main time frame of between when Noodles getting out of jail and when the bank job failed. I really like the acting overall which is very good. Robert DeNiro as always played out his character smoothly, expressing his deep suppressed anxiety very well. James Woods gives the movie a character with the contradicting polar of Noodles, expressing out the anger well. We get to see Joe Pesci and even an earlier career job for Jennifer Connelly here which is very nice.


                
A human drama masquerading as a gangster story, this, the last and perhaps most epic film of Sergio Leone's career, is a story that takes three and a half hours to play out. During the running time we are subjected to a lengthy, complex, and utterly compelling drama that charts the rise and fall of love, friendship, and betrayal in the life of Noodles, a Jewish gangster as played by Robert De Niro. Only true fans of the cinematic experience need apply, who have the patience to sit through many slow scenes and watch the story play out on its own without any rush or contrivances. Once you realise that every moment that plays out on screen is important in the life of the central protagonist you'll realise what a good film this; there is no excess baggage, no extraneous characters, just realism and heartfelt drama. The whole gangster aspect of the story and the setting is just a backdrop for emotions and relationships to play out. Despite the lack of action (fans of Leone's westerns will find the shoot-outs and fights in short supply here) there are many shocking moments in the movie, many involving sexual violence of one kind or another which is tough to watch but still compelling.It goes without saying that the cast is wonderful, and packed with the usual suspects doing their thing. De Niro excels and has the best old-age makeup I've ever seen, James Woods is on the edge as usual, and Elizabeth McGovern is Deborah, an intense object of desire for De Niro. Did anyone ever think that the reason she hasn't aged at all at the end of the film is because we're seeing reality through De Niro's eyes, and in his eyes she is still as young and beautiful as she ever was? Anyway, plenty of familiar faces pack out the rest of the cast, from Treat Williams, Joe Pesci, and Burt Young to Danny Aiello as the hilarious police chief. William Forsythe, Darlanne Fluegel, the list is endless and also includes Jennifer Connelly in her first acting performance.Leone's cinematography is as great as ever and he has a lot of fun crafting some classic moments. The never-ending ringing telephone is a great element to the story and I never realised I could be captivated by the sight of a man stirring a cup of coffee. But there you go. It wouldn't be half the film it without Ennio Morricone's typically evocative score which in many ways surpasses that of ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST with its character themes and solemn, tragic, yet beautiful music. Many elements run throughout the story, many involving the flawed character of De Niro, and without rushing the story gradually evolves in jigsaw-like segments with fall together for the nostalgic conclusion. This is a film that demands close attention throughout to capture all the little nuances and unfolds into a sometimes amazing film as a whole.


                
Set during the Prohibition era, Once Upon A Time In America follows the story of David 'Noodles' Aaronson (Robert De Niro) firstly growing up on Lower East Side of Manhatten, committing petty crimes such as minor thefts and robberies to later becoming a prominent mobster in adult life. The film explores themes such as lust, betrayal, greed, love and friendship all while portraying the rise of syndicate gangs and the Mafia in American society. Once Upon A Time In America undoubtedly tells an magnificent and realistic story of epic proportions, but this in a way is the films undoing, at a run time of 229 minutes the film seems to drag on far too long and develops at a slower pace than it needed to. Being Sergio Leone's final film, it originally came under a mixed response with two different versions of the film released in theatres the Original European Version and the American Cut. However, has since gone on to be labelled as one of the greatest gangster films of all time. Despite being a different genre of film from Leone's normal work, many of his signature traits such as long shots, visual expression and the iconic Ennio Morricone Spaghetti western soundtrack are noticeable and definitely positive points for the film. I also found mainly the second act and latter part of the first act to be more faster paced and interesting moments in the film as Noodles transitions from childhood to adult hood. Also the final scenes complete the motion picture brilliantly with a conclusive and pleasing ending. However, going back to my previous point that the film is far longer than it needed to be, this is evident mainly in the films first act with some scenes feeling far too slow and some even slightly irrelevant to the films progressive plot. The film is told through flashbacks from 1968 and starts being told from a in media res prospective, filling us in with important details and exposition as the film progresses, this works well and is mainly the only reason I remained fully focused and engaged. The Film also features a disappointing lack of action for a gangster flick and even at a 229 minutes, an important robbery scene was unfortunately cut out that a lot of the film focused on and seemingly built too, therefore it all seeming a waste. Another point to note is it attempts to hit you hard with emotions at times but these fall flat (with the exception of a few during the first act) because of the characters being violent, dangerous and brutal, meaning we don't connect with them very well on this level. Once Upon A Time In America features a beautiful soundtrack, signature Leone traits and tells an epic story which for the most part is engaging. However it's lack of action and drawn out scenes of exposition and dialogue mean it seems to trudge at a snails pace and doesn't always keep you gripped. 7/10


                
It's been said that when one watches a "spaghetti" western (one of the "Man with no name" films with Clint Eastwood) filmmaker Sergio Leone's trademark cinema style and flair for clear storytelling is instantly recognizable. This is no truer than in his most ambitious effort, Once Upon a Time in America, in which his usage of close-ups, concise camera movement, sound transitions and syncs, and the sudden change in some scenes from tenderness to violence. And, he pulls it off without making the viewer feel dis-interested. Of course, it's hard to feel that way when watching the cast he has put together; even the child actors (one of which a young Jennifer Connelly as the young Deborah) are believable. Robert De Niro projects his subtitles like a pro, with his occasional outburst in the right place; James Woods gives one of his first great performances as Max; Elizabeth McGovern is the heart of the film; and Joe Pesci should've had more than just a one scene appearance, thought it's still good.


                
I knew it was a gangster film featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You die, and that was good enough for me, from BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Sergio Leone (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly). Basically it is a episodic style tale focusing on the lives of a small group of Jewisg gangsters living in New York City, the story spans over forty years. Told in mostly flashbacks and flash-forwards, it mainly looks at small-time crook David 'Noodles' Aaronson (Robert De Niro) and his partners in crime, Maximilian 'Max' Bercovicz (James Woods), Philip 'Cockeye' Stein (William Forsythe) and Patrick 'Patsy' Goldberg (James Hayden). It sees them grow up as youths in the rough Jewish neighbourhood of the Lower East Side of New York in the 1920s, the early 1920s Prohibition, and the late 1960s with an elderly Noodles returning to look into his past. I didn't fully understand all of the plot, especially with the mixture of flashing backwards and forwards in time, but you are intrigued to see what situations Noodles and the gang are going to get themselves into. Also starring Elizabeth McGovern as Deborah Gelly, Treat Williams as James Conway O'Donnell, BAFTA nominated Tuesday Weld as Carol, Burt Young as Joe, Joe Pesci as Frankie Manoldi, Danny Aiello as Police Chief Vincent Aiello and Jennifer Connelly as Young Deborah. As I said, I didn't really get the plot, I just enjoyed the actors being rough and in a few scenes quite quiet, the violence and gun play, and some good music by Ennio Morricone. It was apparently a big flop when it was brought out in cinemas, but these days they like to call it a masterpiece, I suppose in certain scenes I'd agree with that, it is about three hours twenty seven minutes long, but it is certainly a different kind of epic crime drams to see. It won the BAFTA for Best Costume Design and Best Score for Ennio Morricone, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. Robert De Niro was number 2 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and he was number 5 (along with Al Pacino) on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good!
Yes, the film is too long. No, the film should not have been cut down and butchered beyond all recognition as was the case with its original American theatrical release. Somewhere in between there must be a happy medium. But given the choice between the two extremes it is certainly much better that we are able to see the film as director Sergio Leone intended for it to be seen. Leone's vision for how the story should unfold is what makes the film unique. At times it can be a frustrating film to watch with its exceptionally deliberate pacing. There are certainly times while watching the film where you wish Leone would pick up the pace and move things along. But upon reflection, after seeing the whole film in its entirety, only then can you really appreciate what Leone has done. It's a terrific story and it's a story which is told in a simply brilliant manner. Yes, the film drags at times. Yes, there certainly could have been some cuts here and there to make the running time more manageable. But in the end there is no denying that the film works. It's by no means perfect. There are notable lulls and lesser moments scattered throughout. But the film as a whole ends up being greater than the sum of its parts. And you really cannot understand that until you settle in for the long journey and watch the whole thing.The film tells the story of a group of five young Jewish gangsters from New York City over a span of five decades or so. As you might imagine these characters lead violent lives and certainly not all of them are destined to survive this decades-long journey. But the way this story is presented we know the ultimate fates of some of these characters very early on in the film. That is because Leone presents his story in a non-linear fashion, cutting back and forth between three distinct eras. It is left to the audience, and one key character, to piece things together and it is really impossible to do so until the story has completely unfolded. Scenes which seem unimportant and superfluous take on an entirely different meaning when you see where the story eventually goes. Robert De Niro plays Noodles (because what's a gangster without a nickname?) and it is Noodles who is at the center of the film, tying the various eras together. A younger actor portrays the character in the film's earliest 1920s era when the gangsters are really just young boys. De Niro takes over the role for the other two eras, during the gangsters' 1930s prime and in 1968 when Noodles is pulled back into a world he thought he had left decades ago. De Niro owns the screen, his performance is perfect as he portrays the young 1930s tough and the older man of 1968 trying to unravel a very complex personal mystery. And De Niro is supported by a large group of excellent actors who bring each of the story's eras to brilliant life. James Woods as Noodles' closest friend in the gang and Elizabeth McGovern as the woman Noodles loves but is probably never destined to have give the two most notable performances aside from De Niro but really the entire cast is spot-on. From the young child actors portraying the gang in its earliest incarnation to Woods and McGovern and many other familiar faces who pop up throughout everyone involved seems to fit their role perfectly. It's a wonderful cast which does a magnificent job bringing a terrific story to life.So yes this is a film with a great story. And yes the cast is terrific. And yes the way Leone frames his story adds a brilliant touch. But there is the still the nagging thought that a little brisker pace would have helped. It's not even that entire scenes had to be cut as you realize in the end that every scene really does have its place. Its that Leone at times seems to linger on scenes where the important information the audience and characters need has already been relayed. And there are scenes where too much time is spent setting up the important event which is about to happen rather than simply getting to that important event. A few minor cuts here and there might well have lessened the frustration one senses as the film hits the occasional lull. It's a film with so many great moments but you wish Leone could have gotten in and out of those great moments a little quicker. But all in all this is a film which is certainly a long journey but definitely a satisfying one.


                
With great anticipation I watched the 229-minute DVD director's cut of Once Upon A Time In America. The original release version was supposedly butchered beyond recognition, but I was frustrated to find this one itself had so many problems, because it is often beautiful. What could've been a masterpiece on The Godfather Part II level misses for reasons I cannot fully understand, and it's sad.It is possible that much of it went over my head, but right now it appears that director Sergio Leone, or his cutter and assembler, unaccountably lost account of or forgot to include crucial narrative information in a way I have never seen happen before in a major production.SPOILERS AHEAD: At the beginning, a woman is shot by Burt Young and another thug after going to look for Noodles (Robert DeNiro), who's in hiding from them. A few seconds before she notices some bullet holes on or near Noodles' bed. The bullet holes are never explained, and I think this woman was Noodles' girlfriend seen much later in a 1933 flashback (Darlanne Fluegel?). However, we are never really introduced to her; she just shows up those two times with no back story, and this seems confusing and abrupt. The motivation of Burt Young, et al going after them to begin with was vague; it was obviously because of a rip-off but was not shown or explained coherently. There's some build-up to an ambitious robbery that's supposed to be very dangerous, with much forewarning from Tuesday Weld (who is excellent), but we never see this event come down. Yet Leone spends interminable minutes on a boy toying with a pastry. Also there seems to be some material missing about Treat Williams' union official's relationship with organized crime and how this led to James Woods' plight at the movie's conclusion. Finally, what was the point of not bothering to age the actors? Elizabeth McGovern is supposed to look different from 1933 to 1968, but there was no effort to show 30 plus years of aging. De Niro gets some gray in his hair; that's it. I suppose I'm missing some symbolism. I was very unhappy with the rape scene, not only due to the revolting imagery but also because since there was no prior hint of such potential behavior in the development of the DeNiro character, it was shockingly unexpected.I nod to OUTIA for its breathtaking production design, good cast, good performances and pacing. But for the frustrating lapses, I express puzzlement, unless, as some have suggested, the 1968 portion is all a dream. I'm not used to the way some European directors work, and don't have the time or patience for repeat viewings to tease out all the hidden information here (if it is here at all) as such films require, so I thank other posters for their insights. For now, much of this movie is too abstruse for me.I still like this picture much better than any other Sergio Leone production I've seen, as I have always been alienated by his supposedly ironic but mostly just arch deconstruction of the Western, in which meaningful dialogue, character development, and exposition is ditched in favor of long, enigmatic minutes of actors' faces close-up as they stare at each other, with strangely grandiose, glorious music swelling up in the background. Call me reactionary, but I regard his contribution to the Western genre to be a largely a load of stylistic, self-absorbed poppycock.
Crime dramas seem second only to epics in terms of relative length and pondering. For a genre that follows the lives of people who could die at any instant, crime dramas seem to relish the long takes of an actor drinking some (usually illegal) alcoholic substance, pause, smoke a cigarette, take a deep breath, stare at the camera for a while, and then deliver his response to the slowly seething other character. I think this is why I like Miller's Crossing so much... it has the general ideas and conceits of a crime drama of this nature, but it can pull it off in less than two hours.Well, okay, so let's start over. This is Once upon a Time in America, a crime drama about a man named Noodles who makes his way through the underground starting in the streets of New York and making it big during the Prohibition, eventually to find himself stuck in a quandary over his loyalty to his friends and his desire to keep them all out of trouble. In untypical genre fashion, we follow the movie through a series of flashbacks as Noodle is suddenly dug out of hiding 30+ years later by a mysterious force that seems determined to bring him back to whatever it is he's escaping from. Both parallel stories, his current life and his past life, are revealed simultaneously, each providing clues to the other's motivation. Leone ties the two together with some of the best editing techniques on film, and thus we get a deep enough story that's still easy to follow.In typical antihero fashion, we will watch our character Noodles as he makes it and breaks it, alienating friends and lovers and eventually spiraling downward from his comfort zone. GoodFellas? Godfather? The same basic structure is there, and let us focus a moment on the "America" part of the title. If anything extra can be gleaned from the three hours and forty five minutes of this film, it comes mostly from the short conversation with the socialist. "What, you think you'll change anything? All they'll do is rape you in the a** and keep on doing it." We're never really presented Noodle's character as poor or not-very-well off, even in the younger stages of his career, but we understand--"The Underground", as it were, is simply a parable for American economics, of course. To follow the American Dream is at heart capitalistic, and capitalism is based on exploitation. That is why Noodles can't get the girl of his dreams even though they both love each other. That is why Noodle's era must eventually end to be replaced with a new one. That is why Noodle's eventual catharsis results basically in retirement, retirement not only from his source of income but from the memories of where that income came from.All of this is illustrated and structured around nice long zooming shots inward towards an actors face as he or she... acts. With silence, with movement, with dialog and keeping still. The characters are believable of course, but that's because we've been raised on a diet of them. What, besides the idea of the American Dream as it relates to the criminal world, keeps compelling us to sit for nearly four hours to watch Al or Robert slap hysterical women around, cavort with dangerous friends, and face down killers with a subtle scowl that suggests pure control and power over the situation? Whatever it is, this is a buffet of it. Just take the Intermission's suggestion and pause it a moment for a break, or you might digest too much and explode.--PolarisDiB
Once upon a Time in America is a better than average character-driven epic with its strength actually going to the child actor portion of the film. To note, I watched the 229min version which admittedly at times plodded a little bit. Nonetheless I enjoyed the younger boys in their trouble-making and growing up very much. It was a good evolution of mishievousness changing into crime and mayhem. The relationships between the lead boys and then later Woods and Deniro helped pillar the movie. The violence was at times more than needed unfortunately (or fortunately if you like that kind of thing) - note an overlong rape seen which dragged on in poor taste. Music also became repetitive. Nonetheless the setting and characters were well developed and realized, definitely worth a rental especially if you like crime/gangster movies.
Before I saw 'OUATIA' I had read other people's thoughts of it. This was suppose to be Sergio Leone´s masterpiece. I wasn't much impressed when I had seen the first hour or two. I found the second part to be the best one. But I want to see the beginning of it again.This is in many aspects a good and lavished film done with style and full accuracy, but for me it isn't as good as the Western movies by Leone that I have seen - Per un pugno di dollari (1964), Per qualche dollaro in più (1965), Il Buono, il brutto, il cattivo (1966), C'era una volta il West (1968), Giù la testa (1971) and Il Mio nome è Nessuno (1973).If you compare "Once Upon a Time in America" with Leone´s earlier movies, it misses something important. The charisma, the charm and the warmth of his characters. You never get involved as much in this main characters as you can do with those in his older works. Here you don't care as much about them, because Leone never let you get the chance to come close to them. When it comes to Robert de Niro, I don't care how good actor he is suppose to be. Since his performance in "Taxi Driver", you never get the chance to get involved with the characters he plays. At least in the movies I have seen. Classic Leone characters for me will for ever be Juan Miranda (Rod Steiger) and John Mallory (James Coburn) in "Giù la testa", The Man with no name (Clint Eastwood), Cheyenne (Jason Robards), The Man (Charles Bronson), Frank (Henry Fonda) and Jill (Claudia Cardinale) in "C'era una volta il west", Jack Beauregard (Henry Fonda) in "Il Mio nome è Nessuno" and Colonel Douglas Mortimer (Lee van Cleef) in "Per qualche dollaro in più". But I doubt that either Noodles or Max will join that gang. For me, Leone's main characters is seldom one dimensional or uncomplicated as the case is with this film. The difference is that this characters misses the spirit as other Leone characters use to have.I say it once more: I don't like mobster movies. And somehow the modern mobster-movies seldom gets to be something more than just imitations of "The Godfather". And they are often overlong. If you haven't seen any Leone movies but have decide to change that, don't start with this one. And "OUATIA" is almost pretentious, almost. There are several connections between this and Leone´s earlier work, so if you are the type who look close, you can see that this is a Leone-film.Rating: 7+ of 10.


                
