this is worth watching, its like, learning the ART of SURVIVAL, we humans are so much adaptive to any situation & environment i didn't know till i watched this series, awesome captures & shots, i salute the crew to take such risks of their lives to bring us these huge ocean of knowledge! the most amazing thing was, the isolated tribes, living in the deep forests, about whom we had very less knowledge, & i wonder how the crew members managed to shoot there & how they communicated with them, difficult task; & i really appreciate their shooting of a tribe which was unknown to the human society till date, they did the shot from an aeroplane, above the dense forest. the shots under the water, above the high mountains, in the planes, everything is so perfect, so brilliant, i just want to say, thanks for bringing these to us.


                
BBC did again. BBC took us on a fascinating journey. A journey that no one wants to go back. A journey to ourselves. A journey to our home. No TV, no internet, no capitalism, no monetary system, no armies, no racism...in this house everyone is the one and unique. this is just amazing...ape feeding women, people in the desert, people in the jungle, people living in the most difficult conditions, hidden tribes - they will be hidden forever i hope- People who live with the animals. This documentary series is a culmination. and the music was amazing. thanks to everyone who worked in this documentary seriesThis is the remember ourselves


                
Human planet gives you profound perspectives on our planet earth, every episode tells a story about how we, human, survive and thrive across the world.
Visually it is not so good compare with other awesome documentaries, but its story and music and narration are indeed great.
It is a must watch if you want to know more about planet earth, about human culture around the world, and about how human and other animals, the environment develop in a harmonic way.
In a word, it's a must-watch


                
Amazing! Intriguing! Spectacular! These are a few words to describe BBC's eight-part documentary that looks at the most adaptable, intelligence form of life: the human. A form of life that is everywhere around us, but they present it in ways we never would have thought of. The most intelligent form of life and they explain some of the reasons why. The only form of life to conquer every environment on earth and they explain why. BBC Human Planet looks at the main ecospheres of the environment on earth; Oceans, Deserts, Artics, Jungles, Mountains, Grasslands, Rivers, and Cities. BBC did an excellent job of taking the basic aspects of every culture of the world, such as water, food, and shelter. They took these basic aspects of culture and life and looked at how people meet these needs in the various ecospheres of the world. They take each of these aspects and take a very in depth look at them as an aspect of culture. They include a wide variety of ethnic groups and how their cultures meet these basic requirements. These cultures range from very primitive to extremely developed. Different ways of providing food you will learn about from the Dorobo of South Kenya and their way of stealing lion's kills; the Kazakh of Mongolia hunting with eagles; the people of Northern Greenland's way of hunting auks; and the people of New York City, US planting gardens on top of high rise towers. The different ways people interact with water you will see from the goose barnacle collectors of Spain; the whale hunters on Lembata, Indonesia; and the fish divers of Philippines. BBC in each ecosphere also includes an element of how they live in shelters and homes. They also explore various cultures in their rituals, festivals, and ceremonies. They do a great job of weaving in how the culture is affected by the environment. They show how the environment of certain areas of the world is changing thus affecting the culture. BBC also looks at how western influence and modernization is greatly influencing cultures in the world. BBC did an excellent job in Human Planet of exploring the world and giving an in-depth view at cultures and how they are affected by the environment. It also looked at how these cultures are rapidly being influenced by outside factors. It is an excellent series to watch and get an in depth look at various cultures of the world.
I managed to access this 8-episode series on Netflix streaming movies. John Hurt narrates and does it so well, his enunciation is impeccable and adds nicely to the presentation.What they have done here is develop a series of approximately 45- minute episodes, presumably to play (with commercials) in a 60- minute TV session. Each episode is on a distinctly different aspect of our planet Earth. It starts with "Oceans - Into the Blue" and goes on with such diverse topics as the Arctic, the Desert, the Trees, the Mountains, and ending up with Urban living.In most of the episodes it takes us to places we likely know little or nothing about, and would likely never visit. The sound and cinematography are first-rate and the topics are fascinating. Every episode focuses on one or several cultures that live and survive off the sea or land in ways that most of us could never imagine. One of the best documentaries I have ever had the pleasure of watching. Our Earth and the people in it are fascinating!The last episode focuses on urban life and is quite a contrast to the others. Where we see many remote, indigenous tribes living off the land, where nothing goes to waste, in our urban areas we are very wasteful, both food and energy. It is a cautionary message, we need to take care of our planet Earth or we may destroy it. In addition are separate 5 to 10 minutes features for each of the 8 episodes, showing what the filming crews had to go through to get some of the spectacular shots we see throughout. For me, a long-time photographer, those short documentaries are equally interesting. On Netflix streaming they are contained in a separate program.
