You have all the usual and annoying cliches:
* Don't let the audience know what the hell is going on. If they knew the plot straight away, they'd figure out too early how awful it was.
* Killing men is just fine.
* Killing women is wrong, even if they have killed others and are trying to kill you.
* Always avoid killing some of the worst people, even if you have slaughtered droves of others for far smaller reasons.
* Insist on helping the most annoying girl ever, for no reason whatsoever.
* Don't call the police, even when it is the obvious thing to do.
* If someone saves your life multiple times, be sure to lie to them, try to ditch them, and try to screw them over with the police. Because this isn't annoying to sane viewers, no not at all.
* Take your viewers for granted.


                
Oh dear Lord, where do I start? I guess I'll start by wishing they had made the best portrayal of the Punisher into a better movie, which was Punisher War Zone. Ray Stevenson nailed the character perfectly! Of course, everything else about the movie was subpar, but you have to give credit where credit is due. The first thing they screwed up on was continuing the origin story, which was senseless. Frank's origin story was perfectly set up in Daredevil, he didn't need anymore origin than that. On top of that, it turned into some sort of spy drama that was totally off key with the character. So he's basically Jason Bourne with PTSD or something. The second thing they screwed up on is the fact the Punisher kills bad guys. That's pretty much all he does and he doesn't do it for some clandestine reason or even for revenge, he does it because he hates bad guys! What I was expecting was just that, Punisher killing bad guys. What I got was a long, boring, drawn out story with a "meh" climax that brings the character right back to square one: in need of a reason to kill bad guys which was supposed to have been established in Daredevil. The third thing they screwed up on is forgetting to add likable characters. I liked Curtis and I liked Micro's wife and kids. Other than that, I could care less who lived or died. And the fourth thing they screwed up on, not the last thing but the last thing I'll mention: They forgot that the Punisher is a comic book character! This guy exists in a world where Bruce Banner gains several hundred pounds of shear muscle in a matter of seconds, where Iron Man can take a hit with a ballistic missile, hit the ground at over 100+ miles per hour and live, where Black widow can jump from Captain America's shield and grab onto a speeding flying craft and not have her arms ripped out of her socket, etc... The Punisher has no place in true reality so why the hell are we trying to make this show as realistic as possible? In the comics, the Punisher has stood toe to toe with the likes of Wolverine! He's bested Daredevil, Spider-man, and Wolverine all at the same time! He's a master on-the-fly strategist who, by shear brilliance, ferocity, and ruthlessness, gets the upper hand on practically every opponent. He takes out entire battalions of mercenaries as if taking a casual Sunday stroll and then nukes their headquarters for good measure!Now, I'm not saying that a TV show should emulate those kinds of beyond belief feats of comic book fantasy to that extent, but one would hope that the show would at least realize that Frank Castle, AKA The Punisher, was a comic book character, and the charm of a comic book character is that they're larger than life. They are not bound by the same rules and laws of physics that we mere mortals are and their sole purpose of existence is to be the star of fantastic stories that are beyond the scope of this reality. These stories are a form of escapism, a break from the real world and by trying to make the series ultra realistic, they completely negate the entire purpose of these characters. Suffice it to say, the show was a major disappointment and I'll not be watching the 2nd season, or any season, until these writers realize what a comic book story, how a comic book hero, is supposed to be.


                
Took me a while getting around to this show and I continually hear how great it was from numerous friends and reading online reviews and such. I had high hopes and I was resoundingly impressed with Bernthal as Frank Castle in Daredevil. So as it sat this was going to be a surefire homerun for me, at least that's what I expected.Okay so this show was so disappointing I was devastated. I gave it a pure marathon viewing session of all 13 episodes because I knew if I stopped watching at any point I would never finish it. I will say I was hopeful it could turn things around at some point and all I needed to do was get to the episode where Frank Castle becomes The Punisher but sadly it never really comes to fruition. I mean yes at some point he wears some body armor with a spray painted skull on it. And yes he beats people up and sometimes even shoots them however for a show called The Punisher our titular character does very little punishing. In fact Frank Castle himself seems to be little more than a device to push the shows actual agenda of being about a female Arab-American DHS agent who is the ultimate supercop who does no wrong and despite being almost instantly the head of a New York field office of DHS she handles all of her duties in the most rogue way possible despite having an entire building full of subordinates at her disposal. Did I also mention she is gorgeous? Well that too. In fact, the only time she ever utilizes the people and facilities at her job is to only lead her people blindly to their deaths. Despite the fact that these Marvel/Netflix shows use so many actors from The Wire I don't think anyone involved in the writing actually watched the show otherwise I think they'd have a better idea of how to film police work properly. I have no idea what drove them to take this show in this direction I'm sure its more of that Hollywood virtue signalling that seems to be all the rage which I don't even mind if it's done well and in a way that makes me think about the issue its pointing out but it doesn't. It's poorly written and furthers a boring narrative about a cop who does nothing but screw up yet never faces any consequences besides their own emotional ones and is never once faced with scrutiny at her job for it. Its interesting that they made this the dominant narrative in a show called The Punished. I'm discussing this aspect so heavily because the narrative is so predominant in this series and the bulk of the plot is not related to the main character, Frank Castle at all.The subplot of the series that features Frank Castle is initiated by him doing all the punishing of the people responsible or related by association to the murder of his wife and two children is handled in a five minute montage at the beginning of the first episode after which, his vengeance sated, he resolves to become a mute construction worker sledgehammering concrete walls all day and night (because?) but of course trouble arises at the work place and he's forced into action (because reasons). And that's where the bulk of the action featuring Frank Castle occurs, the first episode. The few tidbits you'll see between episode 1 and 13 are featured in flashbacks and mostly very cheap, very soundstage looking Zero Dark Thirty military wannabe sequences. Some obligatory torture scenes that made me think of what Saw would look like if it were rated PG13. The rest of the subplot about Frank has something to do with him needing but not having guns and then getting guns but not using the guns and something about a friend in the woods he needed to talk to and lets not forget his other friend a marine who left a leg in Afghanistan who idolizes Frank. I won't continue with the laundry list of tropes and lazy story telling in this show but I'll summarize. We see that all conservative 2nd amendment types are inherently sociopaths on their way to becoming the next Timothy McVeigh, according to the show anyways. That single mothers are inherently trusting of strange men so long as they look like Jon Bernthal. And punishment can sometimes be a slap on the wrist. Fundamentally this show suffers from the same issues that beleaguered The Punisher film from 2004. It is so untrue to the character you end up wondering why they call it The Punisher at all. I'm not even being a comic book purist here I understand that adaptations inevitably change core things about the character but you can't take a 12 year old female Asian pianist with rocket powered boots and call her Batman anymore than you can have a Punisher that doesn't kill bad guys on sight. How can you have a character using the hidden blade from Assassins Creed? How can they do that? Its not a similar device it is the exact device it is indistinguishable from what was used in that franchise and for no reason. There was no underlying reason why a character, former US Marine and current Private Military Contractor would carry such a device nor do they bother to try and give it a reason for being there. Once again, laziness in the writing and overall construction of this show.Hey did you know Frank's wife and kids are dead and he's really sad about it? Watch 13 episodes of The Punisher and I promise whatever you forget you will never forget that fact for the rest of your life. In fact you are so constantly bombarded with flashbacks I think its unfair that the actress who plays Maria Castle doesn't get her name in the opening credits sequence as she appears in just as many episodes and has the third most amount of screen time of any actor on the show a distant third to the actress who plays Madani and a close second to Bernthal himself. But that's just the problem with the story telling here, I don't need a flashback to know Frank Castle is sad. Jon Bernthal is a fine actor and I expect him to win an Oscar someday. He's perfectly capable of conveying the emotion without the visual aid.The Punisher 2004 starring Thomas Jane I mentioned earlier travelled this same path of making the Frank Castle into a melancholy alcoholic with a romantic flair. Which couldn't be more untrue to the character. The same thing happens in this series, we get lots suburban scenes of Frank fixing a ladies garage door and playing catch with her son and teaching her daughter how to fix a garbage disposal are not what I was looking for in a show titled The Punisher. Tom Jane was a soft Punished but Bernthal in this show is downright cuddly if my analogy were a film I would call Frank Castle, Hooch, and the rest of the cast, Turner. To end this I will point out that Frank Castle in virtually every other form of media besides film and television does not concoct elaborate schemes to entrap criminals he just walks up and shoots them in the face, a lot. Frank Castle also doesn't make friends because he is an utter sociopath and a an unrepentant mass murderer of criminals. He doesn't talk things over in hostage situations, he shoots through the hostage and kills the hostage taker. This show needed to be John Wick, this show needed to be Sicario. This show needed to be a show about a man driven insane by grief not a show about a man being sad and just needing a friend to get better. Basically, when Frank had long time recurring criminal Turk at the end of his gun and he spared him I knew this show was in trouble. Yes Turk has shown up on all the different Marvel/Netflix shows but how impactful would it have been to use him being executed by Castle to truly set The Punisher apart from the rest of the shows as being the one that will go to that extreme? Think about it. I truly don't understand the praise this show gets, it is not a good adaptation of The Punisher. Ignoring that, it's not even a good show in general. It It's a cavalcade of lazy writing, nonsensical and downright idiotic characters a ludicrously poor understanding of how government agencies and the military work, seriously, the military stuff looks like something a 10 year old Call Of Duty player would concoct as a writing project for English class. Strongest of not recommends for this show and that legitimately makes me sad.
I watched the first episode and I thought the rest of the series would be great. I was wrong. This is probably one of the most boring series I have ever watched. It's slow and the action occurs infrequently. Honestly, I don't even know what the plot is. Frank Castle saves a guy from a cement mixer and then all of sudden he's being chased by a disgraced NSA hacker. I'm on episode 9 and I still don't know what the point of the series is.
They Screwed the pooch on punisher yet again.Remember back in the 80s when studios had balls. Remember when good movies, I mean really good movies, spread through word of mouth. And not an overexposed internet hype.This series has nothing to do with the punisher from marvel comics. They should've called it the frank castle show. Cause all he does it go around as frank Castle and feel sorry for himself. Including a waay to long scene where he hammers a brick wall to pieces. Which is suppose to be a metaphor for therapy.The problem is there's almost no punisher in the entire 13 ep series. It's mostly frank castle going round being grumpy and broody.They've also changed the whole background story. Now it's not the mob anymore, who's responsible for killing his family. Now it was all part of a military cover up.Involving CIA and homeland security.Micro has been turned into a skinny,drinking,snivelling,paranoid weirdo. Who stalks his family through hidden cams in their house. And is somehow involved in the same cover up that suppose to have cost Frank castle's family ,their livesAnd punisher /castle suddenly need help to get guns. It makes we wonder if the people behind this ever read a single one of the comics.Punisher only punishes himself, the action is mediocre at best.Most of the episodes doesn't even have action Heck! Death wish 4 is more of a punisher flick than this crap.
Season two is just as bad as season 1 there is way to much drama,and not enough killing.First off Punisher/castle Was a Retried Green beret yet here he goes into the most stupid ambushes act like an amateur . HE goes up against people who out class him,in hand to hand combat something the comix version never did.
Everything that made the Punisher the Pro he was in the comix. Is stripped away.He hates him self,he don't protect the innocent. Which is totally unlike the charter he is based up on.
He rushes head first into everything that could get him killed. Forget planing,who needs that right.They have turned Marwels coolest character into a soap opera. I bet in the next season, they be singing and dancing,after Netflix has turned it into a musical. Cause the have figured out that is cheaper to produce.


                
Well we all know by now that netflix is all about dragging out one episode over a whole season. But this is just too boring. The hero isn't even a super in this one.I used to be all about TV and movies but recently I got into reading books. And you know what there are so many good books and writers! I really don't get why the "motion picture industry" is constantly redoing old stuff when there is so much good stuff out there never brought to the "motion picture screen" before. Hell I hardly even want to watch TV or movies anymore.Imagine how cool it would be to have Brandon Sanderson's The Reckoners made into a TV show or trilogy of movies (not by netflix though).


                
Let me just say upfront, I can't stand Jon Bernthal. The guy is horribly miscast in this show. I find him completely annoying. I hated him as "Shane" on TWD, and I have been annoyed by him in everything he has ever been in, especially "Fury." So, here, we are getting more of the same. He is a goofy looking person that Hollywood is trying to pass off as "Tough looking." It doesn't work and I am not buying it. Further more, who decided to cast Shohreh Aghdashloo? She is horrifying on screen, ESPECIALLY when she speaks. What is going on with her voice? I shouldn't so harsh, I am guessing that she is probably undergoing some kind of extreme steroid medication. I am sorry if she is suffering from a medical condition, but the fact is, this is a TV show and we are trying to be entertained, not distracted by her man voice. The show itself is boring. Simply boring. The characters are boring and they don't have much to do. This might as well be a show about a Marine suffering from PTSD. It doesn't have to be called "The Punisher," unless the aim of the people who create this show is to punish us, the viewers, with boredom. Don't bother with this mess. If you watch, you will just see Bernthal agonizing over the loss of his family. Boring.


                
I am a huge Punisher fan. Thanks to his time on The Walking Dead, I am also a big fan of Jon Bernthal. I try to watch anything he is acting in. This one, however, is a slow burn and repetitive in its flashback memories. It got really old, fast and I was not able to force myself to finish the second episode. I just simply quit watching.Because I love this actor, I might wander back and try to go through the whole series but I feel bad for him. He's a great actor and does well in this series too, but the script sucks, the story line is sorely lacking and knowing there are 11 more episodes that I am missing because of it, bothers me.If you're expecting a lot of action, right away, don't bother. It won't happen like that.
Maybe some kids wrote the script for the 2 season.... My god....hard to see
..... If going to be like this is better to cancel this show


                
Wow the only people getting punished here is the audience, its so bad that your asking, really is this real, did someone's 10 year old write this , the acting is just atrocious and as your cringing you cringe harder and harder till you can't cringe no more , someone please tell me I'm wrong.


                
If you are a fan of the Punisher comics you will be very let down by this show. Let me say even after I read some negative reviews I decided to give this show a try. i am a long time fan of the comics going back to the early War Journal days. I have to quit this show halfway through. It's painfully slow moving and does nothing to actually represent the Punisher character from the comics. The Punisher isn't a conflicted character; he's knows what he is and he embraces his mission with a cold and ruthless approach. I was like 6 episodes in and he's not in uniform yet (no skull) and isn't out on the streets wasting scum bags. That's what the punisher is! This show I think could've taken even more of an 80s formula with each episode stand alone as Frank takes on a different criminal or gang of thugs. An 80s setting in New York would've been even better! I don't know what this show , some military drama pretending to be a Punisher show. This show had great potential and I even liked the character of Micro but it's just such a disappointment.


                
I hate to write anything that starts with THIS IS CRAP, but I'm afraid THIS IS CRAP! I have always loved The Punisher story, I loved the comics as a kid. I loved the films, and the whole antihero thing, but this rendition of the punisher is not the punisher at all, unless the punisher story has suddenly changed to, Oh how badly I had it in Afghanistan after I invaded the country, and could you all please feel so sorry for me because I have PTSD after I stoved a guys head in with a brick.I tried real hard to like this series. I went the first four episodes, yearning for the punisher to appear, and then... nothing, punisher...less, a complete lack of punisher goodness. There is a guy who could be the punisher, but he's so wrapped up in his self-pity, military mistakes and self-loathing, alongside the endless flash-backs to Afghanistan, I may as well have been watching a painful repeat of The Hurt Locker or The Green Zone.I'm sorry guys, but this is a terrible series. However, if you have never seen the punisher before, if you don't know the true story behind this fantastic archetypal character, then please, dive right on in and watch away, but, whatever you do, don't watch anything else written or televised about The Punisher, because you are never going to understand what is going on, because this series is NOT the Punisher, not by a very long mark.


                
1st season was above average and set up a decent premise for season 2...unfortunately Frank is saddled with an annoying female sidekick...a dull female fbi agent has 33% of screen time...a dull female psychologist (with obligatory issues) has 20% screen time, the hunt for billy goes on and on to allow dull soap opera like sessions with the psychologist and constant dreary musings from the FBI agent all dragging a potentially decent show down to a mediocre, preachy now typical of shows on all networks diatribe on how women are the dominant gender despite the macho men they share the screen with, I'm up to episode 7, I'll not watch episode 8, there will not be a series 3.
I watched Punisher's role in Daredevil.
They showed Punisher character in Daredevil in few episodes much better than in entire Seasion of this show. That's why I started to watch this show. A disappointment soon followed.
Drama, boring, boring and boring. I think writters should read comics and get more information about Punisher.
If you like drama, soap opera, "Spanish Series type of show" than this is show for you.
But if you want real and normal Punisher skip this. This is not show about Punisher.
The writers are desperately trying to take a show thats based on guns and violence and put an extremely left wing lens on almost any issue you can imagine. Politics, guns, military, women, etc. The first season wasn't so bad even with its political messages, but man was the second season bad. The first episode of the second season shows a stereotypical douche who cant take no from a woman, and Frank Castle has to come in and save the day. Look at how great of a man Frank Castle is, protecting women from harrassers. But wait a second, I thought women are strong and independent? They don't need the strength and intimidation of a man to protect them? Surely they dont want to send this message? Of course, they were scared of people thinking like this, so they conveniently threw in the line "You didn't need saving" from Frank. Well, after the woman gets the hots for Frank, and awkwardly asks him over (believability decreasing by the minute). They go to her apartment, and what do you know, she's got a kid. Yes, this is also a political message. Normalizing single motherhood, great flipping idea. The dialogue, the plot, it isn't natural. Everything is forced. Casting is artificially and improbably forced to have another female lead. And when Frank saves her in the bathroom, they just had to include her hitting one of them with a broken sink, just to show she can "fight" too, not to mention that half of the bad guys are women who appear to take much more of Frank's punches than the men.


                
Maybe I was expecting to much from this series. I've watched 2 episodes and the acting his horrible, Jon Bernthal is by far the wrong actor for such an iconic marvel character. He opens his mouth and that fake raspy voice he has makes me wanna fast forward through any scene he's in. And that nose, they couldn't find someone with a smaller nose? Horrible series, a disservice to the comics.


                
Punisher was great but Billy Russo as jigsaw what a joke. Absolutely kill the concept of a character. The new characters are bad but jigsaw. I think it ruins every part of the series. Frank ruined his face deliberately. And now apparently that means a couple of scars and modelesque face. Terrible. Well done Netflix for utterly wrecking a character so much pitentialsilittle in return.
Having seen the last two Punisher movies, I expected from the series: a one man war machine, killing criminals bloody. And over the top maniac criminals, that you love to hate. I expected it to be fun. It's not fun. It's depressing and tries so hard to be super realistic. It copies from another boring show: Homeland. And it's more a political drama than violent action. There is more focus on boring supporting characters than there is on Frank Castle. Like that woman agent who is annoying and unattractive. What little action there is, is violent. But there are entire episodes with no action at all. The acting is good and that is the only reason I've suffered through 8 epsodes of the first season. But I'm done with this show!! It's like watching that very boring Ben Affleck movie The Accountant (also with Jon Bernthal) as a series. What I'm sick of is that series and movies today have to have that super realistic and depressing dark tone. Whatever happened to fun? The series: Ash vs evil dead, is a breath of fresh air. An homage to the Evil Dead movies. With dark humor and over the top gory violence. But in this politically correct millenium, very few people have the balls to make action violent and fun. Like it was in the 80'ies and 90'ies. And thats a goddamn shame!! The awful Bourne franchise and theequally awful Bond movies with Daniel Craig has set the depressing bar for the way actionmovies are made today. There are nice exceptions like the John Wick movies and The Hitmans Bodyguard. Movies that have great violent action. And lots of comedy, in The Hitmans Bodyguard.What I learned from this is that, apart from Stranger Things, Netflix produces crap series. I cant recommend this to fans of the movies or comic books. Because this has NOTHING to do with those.
SEASON ONE:
10 StarsIt's not Jessica Jones, but it's also the BEST cinematic version of the Punisher to date, including the 1989 Dolph Lundgren version which is arguably the best movie version to date.Now, I've seen people on IMDb complain about the lack of super powers and the violence involved in the series and, well, clearly they aren't really familiar with the source material.Especially since The Punisher is essentially Dexter. That is he's a serial killer tolerated only because he kills the bad guys. But still...serial killer.And with that in mind, you have a series about a killer that kills a lot of killers worse than he is. Only unlike Dexter, he's killing them with guns and not really concerned about getting caught or the evidence he leaves behind.He's just a killer. And, well, it works. It's done right. And the characters are perfect.SEASON TWO:Season 1 I gave 10 stars. Season 2 did something so anti-Punisher that I had to bring it down to 1.It did the Jessica Jones thing. The first season was amazing, not Season 1 of Jessica Jones good, but it nailed The Punisher better than even some of the writers in the comics could ever dream of (MAX clearly excluded).And then it does the political thing and unfortunately the politics were "Woke."Now with Jessica Jones the kind of politics weren't that important...they still killed the show...but at least the politics fit the character.Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, Luke Cage (to an extent) you can introduce far left politics and it would fit their character. Daredevil is defined more by being a Catholic...but even then you can take the character to the left and it would fit (just not as far). They are all essentially liberal characters....but the Punisher is not a liberal character.The Punisher can't go woke, Jessica can, but The Punisher is essentially a serial killing super conservative authoritarian. He's not a nice person.The Punisher is slightly right of Atilla the Hun. He makes Trump look like a liberal. That is the essence of his character. He's an authoritarian.He's a conservative character, that is his personality. He's more of a Neo-Con than Iron Man, he's more conservative than Mr. Fantastic..and Netflix made him woke.It is a personality trait that brings him into conflict with so many other Marvel characters, especially very liberal characters like Captain America.And I realize that woke people are also authoritarian...but it's an authoritarianism that is the direct opposite of The Punisher.So, not only did they inject politics into my escapism again (which I hate) but this time the politics where in direct contrast to the character's personality.So congratulations Netflix, you messed up a really good show on two levels.Injecting politics into a show is irritating when you are watching it to escape the bleak reality on the news...but when the politics contrast the essence of the character it's a tragedy.


                
honestly a 9.3? this is the worst brutal mess... There might be some kind of story below all the brainless brutality... But I lost my interest in watching....Again this is a show that pushes the frontier of brutality as entertainment a bit further. This is nothing to be proud about....I do not want to know what the exaggeration of this will be in two or three years... disgusting.


                
Watching the Punisher feels like watching an 80's Seagull movie where Seagull is angry all the time for no reason.Jon Bernthal is not a good actor. I see no real emotion or logic for the way he acts.
I can't enjoy a show where the main character is so evil. It paints the idea that killing is OK as long as the victim is not a girl or an adolescent . Castle also seems to enjoy killing and torturing people.
I tried to watch the first season but I somehow found myself rooting for Russo due to my dislike for the main character. I eventually gave up because there seems to be no sign of changing. It's a shame because I really enjoy daredevil but the 2 characters couldn't be any more different. An evil maniac for a protagonist? What were they thinking?


                
I would have given this a 4-5 rating if these Hollywood drug addled liberal writers did not keep trying to hit us over the head with their anti-US left wing propaganda. You already know the plot, evil military figures (the CIA of course, who else), the US gov't evil intentions with drug dealing thrown in (of course). I expected the deserting traitors Berghdal and Mr. Chelsea Manning to be given starring roles! That said, if you like action and ignore the PC propaganda, it has few watchable qualities if you like that type of show. So you choose.


                
The only Marvel Netflix series I will be watching from here and until the end of time is Daredevil, because all the others are just a waste of time. I liked the Punisher in the second season of Daredevil and we all know what's his name can act, plus the hype around was crazy good so I believed it. I checked the IMDb score (which is right about 77% of the time) so I thought I was safe. The first episode was meh. The second episode was meh. I was about 10 minutes into the third episode when I was literally scrolling on my phone when I thought to myself, "what a minute, I am literally not even giving this show 15 percent of my attention" so I knew something was wrong. Then I went to my big guns, IMDb reviews - and shockingly a lot of them confirmed my suspicion, this series is just meh. So I stopped watching right there and then. Life is too short to watch hours of meh. From what I did watch of the series I would rate it 5.5/10. But I am giving it just one star because most of the users giving it 10 stars are probably bots.


                
After seeing the movies with Dolph Lundgren, Tom Jane and Ray Stevenson, I was looking forward to seeing the new series. I liked Jon Bernthal in the few things I saw with him (THE WALKING DEAD and WIND RIVER) and I really don't see anything wrong with his portrayal as Frank Castle aka the Punisher.
However, this is NOT the Punisher. First of all, it drifts off to many times that I asked myself was I still watching the Punisher? Or was is The Super Agent Madani Show?
Secondly it got overloaded with SJW crap. A few examples: the female lead is a muslim Iranian Special agent Dinah Madani from DHS, investigating how the "forces of evil" - namely the CIA and the US Army - tortured and killed a poor muslim in Afghanistan. There's an NRA fanboy who is your perfect liberal portrayal of an NRA member: old, white, fat, all talk, no balls, constantly on about the Second Amendment and how our rights are slowly being taken away, but in the face of confrontation he is a coward. Yeah.
The plot drags on and is really predictable. Suspense? nuh-uh. Not here. Action? I remember some in episode 1 and 5.
Hey look, I like a good thriller and conspiracy thriller - but I like my Punisher like the two later movies, stick to the action, the tragic figure and keep out your SJW BS. We've got enough Hollycrap movies for that.


                
The only reason I watched this is because Jon Bernthal in it.


                
