After the first season, with the release of the second season, I finished the series in a breath. I think this is the best project of the Marvel-Netflix partnership. It is a solid series that has been achieved after the cancellation of many Marvel-Netflix joint projects.Action and blood enthusiasts will love this series. There's a lot more blood, death and action than the first season. In the second season has as much violence, blood, action and cruelty as you don't want. At this point, one of the other thanks must go to the kerography team. As you will certainly notice, we are watching episodes filled with fight and conflict scenes. The tempo is not interrupted for a moment, and each episode tries to place at least one action sequence. The Punisher's 2nd season just put Frank Castle in the chaos he deserves, and he succeeded in bringing all the minuses into a negligible situation.The season has two main villains and both are as wild as the Punisher. The fiction is also established accordingly, and our two main villains are advancing in parallel. Curtis is one of the good characters of the season. He represented the conscience side of the series very firmly. Amy is another prominent character of the season. She's under Frank's protection because she's close age to Frank's dead daughter. It's fun to see Amy with Frank. Amy is a well-designed character. Her adolescent behavior, her indiscretion, and Frank's reaction to all these things are very natural. With Jon Bernthal's great acting, we have access to the emotions of a father hidden behind a bloody face.The music uses were probably the best among the Marvel-Netflix co-productions. Too much music has been used and each one is very successful in passing the emotions of the scenario. Like Daredevil's corridor scenes, it's like we're going to look again at the Punisher's list of songs. And of course it is necessary to mention the last episode. It was one of the finest series finals for me. After many striking and emotional moments, it is impossible not to experience emotional explosion with the last scene. The Punisher role is seated on Jon Bernthal like a shirt.We have watched an immaculate season with strong scenes of conflict, good acting, immersive fiction and fluent scenario that never falls behind its first season and even better for some of us than the first season. I hope it will be a long-term series and we will continue to watch Frank Castle. 10/10


                
Honestly, this show is pretty much perfect to me. My favorite marvel character executed surprisingly well by Jon Bernthal. I can't think of anyone else that would be better. Josh Stewart was also incredible; such an underrated actor and wonderful to see him in this. Please give us season 3, Netflix!


                
This is one of my top 5 favorite tv shows ever made. The story makes sense and the acting is so sincere and genuine. The show is exciting and raw, the way the story should be. It holds no punches which is why it makes it awesome. I appreciate it so much!I do have to say that Frank Castles story is dark and very sad. I can't imagine the challenge it is to play him as a character, his range of emotions and the brutal fighting. The actor casted for him portrays it all so perfectly. Especially in episode 11, in the hospital bed. I cried because I felt the pain he was feeling. Bravo to him for taking us on such a roller coaster. Congrats to the whole crew for an amazing 2nd season!!
I have enjoyed most of the Marvel Netflix series. In Daredevil season 2 part of the side story involves meeting Frank Castle. I don't know if that is a spoiler but the box is checked just in case. I am very familiar with the comics and find people who "demand" it to be just like the comics difficult to deal with because there are different versions and years of source material to accommodate. This Punisher seems to fit well into the TV universe that Marvel and Netflix have created. I found the characters engaging and the use of characters like Karen Page welcome. It has been my favorite of the non Daredevil shows. Luke Cage, Jessica Jones, and Iron Fist all seemed lacking to me yet I did enjoy them. The Defenders was good but not Punisher good. This isn't for a younger audience but for adults this is a great narrative of a tragic vigilante that just wanted justice. Jon Bernthal was a perfect cast for this role and I can believe and relate to the character the way he portrays him. The previous film versions lacked that. I hope they keep Punisher in the rotation for new series.
I binge watched this show the day that it came out because I'm a huge fan of Jon Bernthal's career, and this Netflix original isn't an exception. First things first, Bernthal is the perfect person to play the depressed, bloodlusted, confused Frank Castle. His vocal performance and his facial expresssions are amazing. SPOILER ALERT there's a scene where he's reminiscing in his bed and his wife starts to have a conversation with him because he's just gotten home from war. When she goes to leave the room, she's then shot by two masked men and it doesn't show her getting shot but it cuts to Frank's face and he just shocked and filled with sheer terror when his wife's blood sprays on his face. This is one of those moments where I believe that Bernthal found the best role he'll ever play. And the conversations that he has with his partner Micro are sometimes hilarious and sometimes dark for the both of them. There one conversation where they're both extremely drunk and Micro just loses it and starts peeling back Franks layers like an onion. SPOILER ALERT Micro then says that he's going to the police and all the things that he says about Frank only having a war and violence inside of him because his family was murdered is correct because Frank goes up to him and knocks him out to stop him from telling the police so Frank can end it all by himself through murder. There are some episode where it may seem slow but at least for me it always has my attention. My favorite episode by far was the eighth episode because it introduce multiple plot lines involving terrorism, political and social issues suck and vets coming home and not having a place in the world anymore and then there's what the policy of of marine is and what they'll do to fight for its. This subplot goes on to episode eleven then it goes back to the main storyline. The big finale is episodic and well worth the wait. Frank is always one step ahead of his opponents and he has everything in place for the ending that he wants, SPOILER ALERT he wants to die but have enough evidence to put the people that killed him and his eniemies in jail for life. This is not the ending that he gets because his friend Micro betrays his promise and tell homeland security where this big finale is occurring at and they arrive there after one of Frank's old friends (who's one of his enemies now, Billy Russo) let's Frank go to kill one of the men who was beating Frank's senselessly. Billy is about to shot Frank for telling the police but he's sot in the arm and runs away. Frank is then fading away and going to the light which is his wife but Micro doesn't let him and bring him to help which is one of the homeland security members parents. Frank then most lye gets fixed up then goes on a big chase after Billy Russo which lead him through some of Frank's friends then to a spot that is very important to the both of them, a carnival carousel where Frank and his family and Billy would go. Billy then finds two workers and SPOILER ALERT ties them up to the Carousel with they're wrist slit as bait for Frank to try to save them. Frank's tried to save them but Billy just starts shooting Frank time after time and he has the upper hand for a while until Frank gets some help. Homeland agent Madina then arrive and gets shot instantaniously by Billy Russo. When he turns around to shot her, Frank's gets the upper hand and stabs him in the stomach with a shard of glass, he then repeatedly knocks Billy's head on a carousel mirror about seven times, then he drags Billy's face down the mirror in the most brutal fashion. He turns Billy around and Billy tells Frank to just kill him because of how horrifying he looks. SPOILER ALERT Frank almost kills him but then second guesses himself and tell Billy that he's the only one of his targets who's not going to get off so easy with death because he betrayed him and got his family killed. Frank then knocks Billy out on the glass and a shard gets stuck in his grotesque face and we get a close up. What I enjoyed so much about this scene if Frank is exerting his revenge into someone who betrayed him and you can really feel all of the emotions hat Frank is feeling because of everything that's happened to him because of Billy. He then goes on to save the kids and Madina and her family repays him with is previous alias of Pete Castilliogne so that he can keep on living his life because of the justice he served. Frank's heals quickly and so does Madina,but as they're talking about Billy we see that his head is wrapped in gauze because of how disfigured he is. They also talk about how he lost most of his brain functionality but they hope that when he wakes up (if he ever does) that he'll remember everything that Frank and Madina did to him. Frank is then asked to go to dinner with Micros family but he ditches and goes to this Veteren group that had them talk about what it like to live in a world where they don't belong anymore and Frank gives his speech and the shows first season is over. I know that this isn't the most thorough review but it's what I believe is the best part of this series provided as what I believe is the best Marvel series to ever happen.
Well written, well acted. with great scenes and action sequences it is hard to not like this series, as a guy whom has read many many comics over the years it certainly lifts them up as the show brings something towards the comics. a great performance done by Jon as The Punisher. since i have seen him in other TV shows/movies i knew he could play the role well.we explore what makes the Punisher and what he is made of in this series. we see his back grounds and we see his perspectives as the show continues. the chemistry between characters is done well especially with Karen. All in all a great series and is right up there in the front lines with Daredevil and i look forward to the next season for sure


                
Best series ever!! My family loves it and we can't wait for season 3!


                
Absolutely love The show, great cast, great execution, best of the best hands down


                
I'm not one to write reviews. I'm lazy.. I watch a show, a movie, and I move on. But this show has forced me to put my laziness aside and pass comment, because it is not rated highly enough. I recently saw a film that hurt me down to my bones because it was so terrible, and I had my critique formulated but couldn't be bothered to post it because I didn't care about it. I CARE about The Punisher, and I think every adult fan of this kind of entertainment should watch it.The Punisher is everything that a vigilante show should be. To be clear, I love all of the Marvel/Netflix shows (well.. Iron Fist was a little irritating, but still fun), and I'm a big fan of the MCU even though I was never a comic book fan. I've kept up to date with Arrow and The Flash (I couldn't quite come at Legends of Tomorrow; little too ridiculous), but all of these vigilante superhero shows just leave you feeling like something is missing. You love the characters, you love their motives, but you just can't quite understand why they're so unbelievably/disgustingly pure. "Oh no, that naughty man has killed so many people; we had better make sure we lock him up, or that the proper authorities get a hold of him!"
Some shows have done better than others; hopefully anyone reading this won't be too behind, but Arrow started off killing people, and does still from time to time.. Daredevil and Jessica Jones have got their hands dirty once or twice.. but Luke Cage was upsettingly purist and Iron Fist had nothing better to do than declare "I'm the immortal Iron Fist" and expect bad guys to submit themselves to the proper authorities.None of the heroes in any Marvel films used to kill people... or if they did it was very few and far between, no matter how much it was deserved. Then Deadpool came along and showed the world that adults want to see action from the characters they love that actually aligns with their own emotions. Some ****head destroys your life, and gives you super powers? Of course you kill them. For the greater good, of course. Of course. I love Deadpool, for the same reason that I love The Punisher.. but the Deadpool films are a comedy, poking fun at the whole concept of heroism through gratuitous violence.The Punisher takes a different path. We all felt Frank Castle's pain in Daredevil season 2. But The Punisher season 1 takes it to another level. We feel so much for Frank and the pain he's endured. We hate his enemies with a fiery passion that cannot be satiated by the normal justice system. These people have done unspeakable things, and if they are arrested they will find a way around it, or they will continue to work their evil from within the corrections system. There's only one answer: they must die. And Frank doesn't revel in the violence; he doesnt get some sick pleasure from making them bleed - he just gets rid of them. It's what we all secretly hope would happen to people who we KNOW cannot be corrected, and who are just going to waste oxygen and taxes and whatever else by being "rehabilitated".I'm not some pro-execution/violence petitioner who thinks that this show is how the world should work. But, for a fantasy television series about a vigilante taking justice into their own hands, this is what makes SENSE.**SPOILERS**And it's not just that. The characters, their motives, and the performances are BELIEVABLE. I've never been a fan of Jon Bernthal. I couldn't wait for him to be killed off in The Walking Dead. But I LOVE him as the Punisher. He looks the part, he plays the part, and I sure as hell don't want to cross him. Sure, there's a bit of comic relief in Sam Stein, and the Karen Page addition is clearly just to ensure that it ties in to the other series (even though I actually love Frank's dedication to Karen).. but the primary characters are AWESOME. Madani is the necessary level-headed law enforcer, but she plays into the grey area perfectly. Billy Russo was obviously going to be a significant villain; he was just too smooth from the start. But the way Ben Barnes plays it, milking the self-important, 'pretty boy' angle from start to finish, just works so well. Curtis is the unshakeable social worker cum brother-in-arms and his unwavering dedication to helping any other vets despite his own (arguably worse than most's) demons gives the heartwarming aspect. Daniel Webber as Lewis Wilson is straight-up epic. His stressful pout through pretty much every scene he's in doesn't make him feel one-dimensional; it makes us feel as tense as he seems to feel.The climax of the show is the best of all. Frank realising that he can force Russo to suffer more for his crimes by ****ing his face up than by killing him is the ultimate fist-pump for anyone who has become engrossed with the story. Obviously that just sets us up for the next season, but THANK GOD for that!Everything about this show is awesome, gritty and REAL. In summary; there are no superheroes; but if there were, the Punisher is what they would be. People who have the ability to outlive and outstand opposition, and to do what the law is not able to do: end the dangers that the law can't, without concern for themselves.
I love this Frank!!!! Love every action he makes!!! Dark as hell when needed!!! Punisher needs more seasons!! Hate shows always gets cancelled!


                
Hell of season they continue in the same way or even better, this is the really punisher, from the first episode I was satisfied


                
Jon bernthal plays the best punisher!! Hands down. Love this show!!!


                
Great, so much action!! Second season diferent from the first one but job done.. Frank is a punisher!


                
Hopefully there will be season 3 and netflix would not stop the series when all when all the good series are leaving of netflix.


                
Jon portrays Frank Castle with such conviction and strength that you literally feel alongside with him. You believe his story and his purpose and you root for him to win every time. This show needs a season 3, 4, 5, and so on and so forth. I would pay money for that.


                
Some city's in the world need a guy like that.. Bad ass!!! Can't wait for season 3.


                
Please do not cancel The Punisher! We already lost DareDevil! Bring us season 3 please! Netflix!


                
Hats off to Jon Bernthal for adding depth to the man behind the Punisher, portraying Frank in the way that he does. Deep, flawed, and human, Bernthal expresses Frank's turmoil and anguish without turning him into some one-dimensional asshole. The supporting cast, especially the interaction between him and his "sidekick", and that with the HS agent and the other dude.The story itself is exceptionally well-paced, had me on the edge of my seat, the scenes well-cut and supporting cast well-acted. The series remains faithful to the revenge plot the Punisher is known for, but what I found more interesting and deserving of the high rating is how we see the stories of veterans and those suffering PTSD and how they deal with them woven seamlessly into the overarching story.
One of my favorite Marvel series on Netflix! Really does the comic Justice


                
If you like plenty of action, this is a series for you, non stop through both the seasons, shame it all ends with 2! Will miss this one!


                
Great, great, great! I love it, Jon Bernthal is the man! Cast is so versatile and badass across the board!


                
I for one have never been drawn in on how good it feels after the punisher beats a rapist or any criminal to a pulp before he blows there head off... but thats how the punisher feels and he's feeling pretty damn good.
The Punisher is a Vigilante he kills bad guys only, but in a very nonhuman way.
Criminals most all the time are repeat criminals. Cops bring them to Jail they get they hurt people and go back in. With the Punisher if criminals get out of prison and they try to do it again, and they're about to do something very wrong... They don't repeat... Cuz Well they're to dead to try.
Honestly There is No Other Punisher
Jon Bernthal is the Punisher.
Just Like Charlie Cox is Daredevil....
and if they ever cancel this after three seasons
I'm going to be Pissed.
They never should of ended Daredevil >.<


                
BUT THIS IS UP THERE, ONE OF THE BEST NETFLIX SERIES OUT THERE, ADDICTIVE AND WELL WORTH THE WATCH!


                
Action from beginning to end. Way better than the movie.


                
This show is exceptional! Jesus Christ!!! It's written and executed so well. Jon Bernthal is The Punisher, as much as Vincent D'Onofrio is The Kingpin. I don't think any review could possibly do this show justice, outside of a professional film critic. I will say this: you can instantly see that Jon Bernthal is a very experienced actor, just by his full commitment to the part that he's playing. Absolutely fantastic.


                
