Season 2 starts with the Shultz family's pastor, fellow Christian John Pilgrim, on contract to kill a young girl, Amy Bendix. Pilgrim Progressed from a white supremacist Nazi with assassin training, to pastoral care, a family man, back to being an assassin. The name Pilgrim probably comes from the Christian book Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. To add to how contrived this season is, Frank just happens to be in the right place at the right time.Due to trauma, Billy Russo is confused, doesn't know why his "friend" Frank is trying to kill him. Amy spent a short time borrowing the laptop at a computer store to figure out what Billy did to Frank. The news clips explain it all.
Billy is depicted as tortured, desperately wanting to understand his past yet he, nor his psychologist or anyone can be bothered to spend 2 mins on Google, as Amy did, to look at the same news clips to figure it out. Poor Billy.
Lame!To make things worse, the writers go out of their way to depict the powerful and corrupt Schultz family as typical American Christians in surreal scenes as they talk at a pulpit after the pastor preached about miraculous healing depicting parishioners as "low IQ" and desperate as possible. To drive home the point, Amy mentions how the alt-right web sites support Schutz family's ambitions, tying Christianity ( again) to Nazi white-supremacists as if they are natural allies.
Oh! must you bring the American polarizing culture war to an already bad start you propagandizing self-righteous know-it-alls!?2 out of respect for the first season.
This is not the Punisher from Dare Devil that I was expecting. So far this series has been such a huge disappointment (5 episodes in). I am struggling to get through the series which focuses on supporting characters and the emotional fragility of Frank Castle. The Punisher is very limited and vulnerable both physically and mentally, a far cry from the character depicted in the comics. This series could easily just be a action/drama about a Marine who suffers from PTSD. I fell asleep three times in the last two episodes.


                
I was very excited about this. I loved Daredevil and then Jessica Jones and Luke Cage. Iron Fist was a disappointment , but after seeing Punisher in Daredevil , and having seen the movie , I was very excited to watch this. So I turned it on on a day when I had a lot of spare time , just so that I can watch at least two episodes and enjoy it ... and it was just a huge disappointment. It doesn't get you involved as much as the others . And the story is kind of crappy. I didn't even watch 2 episodes that day. I kept playing it throughout the next few days , while I was at the house doing chores , just as a background , but it's so bland that it just doesn't keep your attention . You just feel like you could be doing something else , instead of watching it. I don't even know what episode I am on now , i don't care , I probably will see the whole thing eventually, but who knows when . I saw the whole season of trailer park boys though .. that was pretty damn good, especially compared to the Punisher.


                
Why can't corporations like Netflix produce a quality replication of an intense multifaceted Marvel comic character like The Punisher?They stole the skull and character then turned him into a sissy and created a politically correct snooze fest. The first season was viable, but as with every other Netflix Marvel series the sequel sucks. Netflix - please stop destroying Marvel heroes with your pathetic copycats and boring garbage ripoffs. This isn't The Punisher - it's not even close to qualifying as being in the same dimension as The Punisher novels.Then they introduce a new villain - Pilgrim - not even one of the 50+ villains from the graphic novels! Why? Perhaps to take a jab at Bible thumpers by creating a bible preaching assassin that riddles off scripture before murdering folks. Funny how such a well-versed pilgrim can't recall "Thou shall not kill". Epic fail.I don't even have time to waste delving into the Russo debacle of a storyline. What a waste.The Punisher season 2 summarized: you've got a knockoff wussy guy that can no longer be call a Punisher and a made up preachy villain paired up with a wacko psychotherapist in love with a psychopath. Not to mention the whiny ungrateful pc millennial tagging along.What the crap did I just watch?
My honest review,Season1 was good .But season 2 is massive disappointment.it looks like some school kid was written this story and directed.undoubtedly this was the worst series i ever watched.


                
I will keep it very brief. Major letdown.....How could they mess up so bad?! They probably wanted a new approach on the Marvel anti hero, but missed by far. 
The best Punisher run in comics is the Max one , from Garth Ennis . That's the rendition I want to watch. The intrigue was sooooooooooo booring. Geeezz! The action is at the most 1-2/10. The dialogue long and not interesting, and yeah ..... in some episodes we see Punisher telling jokes. Yes ! That's right! The Punisher is telling dirty jokes. What a garbage!!! 
Just watch the last 2 episodes. That's where we get some explosions, shootings and hand to hand combat . That's the reason I gave it a 2 , for the last 2 episodes.


                
Why can't corporations like Netflix produce a quality replication of an intense multifaceted Marvel comic character like The Punisher?They stole the skull and character then turned Castle into a sissy and created a politically correct snooze fest. The first season was viable, but as with every other Netflix Marvel series the sequel sucks. Netflix - please stop destroying Marvel heroes with your pathetic copycats and boring garbage ripoffs. This isn't The Punisher - it's not even close to qualifying as being in the same dimension as The Punisher novels.Then they introduce a new villain - Pilgrim - not even one of the 50+ villains from the graphic novels! Why? Perhaps to take a jab at Bible thumpers by creating a bible preaching assassin that riddles off scripture before murdering folks. Funny how such a well-versed pilgrim can't recall "Thou shall not kill". Epic fail.I don't even have time to waste delving into the Russo debacle of a storyline. What a waste of time.The Punisher season 2 summarized: you've got a knockoff wussy guy that can no longer be call Punisher and a made up preachy villain paired up with a wacko psychotherapist in love with a psychopath. Not to mention the whiny ungrateful pc millennial tagging along.What the crap did I just watch?
The more trailers I saw the less intriguing it got. That the girl would be an irritating pain in the arse was soon to be clear and even the intro of episode one showed that this season was going to be a "rough road". Endless staring, endless fighting, what could be more boring than one knifefight....two knifefights within five minutes......with likewise Irritating female thugs. Even the blood on Franks face looked stupid and that he got shot in the ass, sweet Jesus.
There is no chemistry beween Frank and that unlikable brat at all, which was never worth saving in the first place and getting into all that trouble. And that pending Lolita-vibe does also not help the plot either.
And I do not want to start with the dreadful performance of this terrible actor portraying the main villan, who is equally irritating as Negan or Madanis pointless angle, which seems to be just plain stupid and not worth following at all.
I quit watching after that endless episode 3.
The only thing that was really cute was the romance between Frank and Beth, I want to see more of that. In the meantime I will rewatch season 1, again and again an again, which is by far the best television has to offer....apart from Justified and the first three seasons of The Unit.
When I heard Neflix was giving the Punisher his own TV show, I just remember Jon Berthnal's relentless insensitive blood-thirsty Frank Castle, and the awesome confrontations with comic book characters in daredevil season 2, and I was beyond excited. But to my surprise, I saw more Punisher in Daredevil than on his own show. Episode one promised a season packed of action, shootouts, blood, mobs and a heartless Punisher, which didn't happen or as much as anyone expected. instead they went for compassion, love and sympathy the rest of the episodes, until the last two episodes where you could get a glimpse of the Punisher. But even then, it was always about frank castle and struggling with his emotions in a civilized manner. In my opinion, as a fan of the Punisher and speaking for all the die-hard fans too, we wanted more of what what promised in daredevil, less sympathy and more pulling the trigger.


                
I watched the entire series hoping it would get better, alas that didn't happen. If you can get past the bad acting and guirella noises that Frank makes all the time and just enjoy unrealistic shoot ups..you might enjoy this. Worst Marvel adaptation to date.. 2/10 is generous.


                
Well, I'm a big fan of The Punisher since nineties. I grew up with his comics and I was very excited when Netflix announced the series, but unfortunately I was bored just after the first episode. The character is not the doomed man who wear the white skull on the chest, he's just an haunted 'soldier' with a lot (!) of flashback and a poor action ability. A drama movie, nothing else. A tip for Netflix, for the next season take a look to the Garth Ennis characters. That's The Punisher.


                
Sorry, but you just can't trust these 10/10 reviews. To explain: here's a rundown of this so-called 'action-packed' series, season one, episode 8:
lots of talking and slow-paced shots for 40minstwo minutes of The Punisher getting through to a boy by putting a knife to his throatthe boy opening up immediately, they hugfive mins action sequence of glued to the ground elite soldiers being by policecut to The Punisher playing catch with same boy, laughingcut to cliched washing blood off sitting in the shower sceneend of episode1. If you think this is cool for a 21st century Punisher, fine. But it is very far from the comics.
2. Even for a non-Punisher series this would be a bad episode (and yes, all the episodes are like this).
Crunch the numbers: 5mins out of 50 = 10% action + zero kills by the Punisher +boring exposition +hardly any character development and if, only of secondary characters +exhausting or cliched conversations. Does that sound like it amounts to a 10/10? I would say rather not.Sorry, I went in eager to like this; gave it a couple of episodes to develop and pick up the pace (which it never did); do like Bernthal's acting but I did not tune in to watch an over-simplified and cliched drama series.
(Also, i just skimmed through episode 9. 54mins, with a one minute fight scene. That's it.)So, if you're into drama, have your fill. For action or Punisher fans this is not, not by a long shot.
This show contains some of the worst acting I have seen in such a long time. I have tried to watch it multiple times but I can't make it through season one. He is such a bad actor that it's unwatchable for me.


                
Jon Bernthal (Frank Castle) brings his Walking Dead persona to The Punisher. I guess that is why he was chosen.Amber Rose Reva (Dinah Madani), terrible actor. Not believable.Crap writing. Leftists kooks who really need a life wrote this.NRA, bad! Guns, bad! Military, bad! Depicting "redneck", bad! America, bad!I'm surprised they didn't show Fake CNN or NBC/MSNBC news broadcasts during the shows. Or fake lying women carrying mattresses around campus.Yawn. Most of America is tired of the same old junk spewing from the left. THEY REALLY HAVE NO CREATIVITY LEFT IN Hollywood. Just delusional hive mindsets. Everyone knows it.Another swamp to drain, Hollywood. They simply cannot see past their delusions of "the little people" who will be too stupid to see through their constant, repetitive propaganda.Go away.Child-like scripts, that is all we get out of Hollywood these days. Scripts written by people who never learned how to write.Rubbish and boring. Don't waste your time.
I have left very few reviews on IMDb over the years but I really felt I needed to with this remake of The Punisher in a TV series format! As a U.S. Army combat veteran who won a valor award at the Battle of Loc Ninh in Nam in November of 1969 with the 1st Infantry Division, I feel I have a unique insider's view of our military. I worked with the top general, Keith Ware, while serving as an official U.S. Army war correspondent for two years in-country. The U.S. Military NEVER acts as it is portrayed in this deceptive and deceitful series The Punisher on Netflix. The truth is that we are the good guys and if any service member commits a crime against a prisoner they are held responsible for it. We have the highest military standards in the world. In this series you have FBI agents trying to kill people to cover up misdeeds by the U.S. Marines in Afghanistan, etc. You have "hit squads" of U.S. military personnel killing innocent people in Afghanistan. This series is "rotten to the core" and I don't recommend it to anyone. StocktonRob
In another era this kind of story would be called an exploitation film. My rating is perhaps too low considering I watched the whole series but I was really hoping by the end one of the bad guys aim would be good and we could see the end of the outrageously horrendous vigilante Frank. Like the other connected Marvel heroes of a dark New York, it seemed a pity to me that they did not make the passable plot lines great and just let up on all the fake blood. And Frank's superpower was never really spelled out...is it a spoiler? He heals miraculously! It seemed laughable at times. Perhaps you will like it though? There are some likable characters.


                
