I must say i took me a while to get used Jon Bernthal casting as the Punisher but i eventually warmed up to it in the first season. Now the second season is a complete mess. Ben Barnes (Billy Russo) acting is worse than Keanu Reeve!! It is just horrible with his constant head and eyes movement and the terrible scars that don't match the amount of damage The Punisher made on his face at the end of 1st season. Anyhow no to go off on Billy but that piece just ruined the story. The new villain is Jon Pilgrim working for another dude. Josh Stewart does a good job acting and bringing this odd combo of religion and psychosis into this subtle but highly interesting character. The rest is just bunch meaningless conversation and over-the-top acting. I experimented watching ep 2 thru 5 by zipping thru every few minutes to only catch fight scenes and tit bit of conversations between main characters. I was able to watch three episodes in 11 minutes and did not miss an iota of the story or action after I went back and watching full episodes. That should tell you that the plot and story line and character building is just meaningless in this season. It is a braindead plot, uninteresting villains (except for Jon Pilgrim) and way way over-the-top acting. Even the action scenes are not as good as the first season. In one episode he is running around the trees in the dark shooting bad guys. Seriously shooting sitting ducks in the dark.... But that the essence of this second season


                
Was hooked on The Punisher comics during the eighties, and have enjoyed all 3 movies multiple times since they where made. I've been waiting eagerly on this show since the announcement, and been re-watching the movies over the last weeks to get ready for binge watching the series on Netflix.Unfortunately it was a total letdown.After sitting trough the first six episodes, and getting bored to death with drama, talking, more talking, and more talking people, mixed with continues meaningless flashbacks, I finally gave up and fast forwarded trough the remaining episodes, only to slow down and see the last episode fully. I did not miss a thing.The show might be called "The Frank Castle Drama before he becomes The Punisher", but it is definitely not "The Punisher".This is like buying 13 copies of "The Punisher" comic, and there are only "The Punisher" worthy action and "punishment" 1 page every 3 comic books.There are maybe enough material in the 13 episodes for 2 proper "The Punisher" episodes. I like Jon Bernthal as an actor and in the few scenes where he are allowed to act with the presence of "The Punisher" its really good.. But then of course there is a flashback, and he end up talking to someone for 5-10 minutes.... I wont give this a 1, because its at least an attempt on "The Punisher", but cant stretch this higher than a 3.And... first ever review. Written 5 minutes after seeing the last episode... so yea, this was a letdown..


                
Fight scenes are a given when the Punisher is involved. The fights in this series are well done and much more violent than other Marvel properties.Beyond that, the story is a drag. THE DEFENDERS ran into the same problem by stringing together scenes with no purpose other than to be filler. THE PUNISHER carries on that tradition by cutting away from things that matter to pointless yacking. I could have done without Madani's storyline. It needed to be stronger and more tightly bound to Frank from the go to be interesting. Flashbacks were also used far too much--they have to be meaningful and reveal something important, rather than be repetitive and easily cut without loss of plot. Here's to hoping the next Marvel-Netflix team up will be better.
I was so looking forward to Series 2 after thoroughly enjoying Series 1. However the moment that insufferable 'actress' Giorgia Whigham (Amy) made her appearance I began to lose hope. I have no idea what she is doing in this series. She brings absolutely nothing to the storyline but spends her time loafing around like a little girl lost occasionally pretending to look interested. I recall seeing her in an episode of that other American Soap Opera for the intellectually challenged 'Supernatural' and she was quite dreadful. I suggest that any money she makes from this appearance she puts towards acting lessons. I was hoping that she would get bumped off but as she is still here in episode 11 I fear that I am to be disappointed. Apart from that the rest of the series is just repetitive and overly violent in my opinion. I think the decision to make this the last series is a sensible one.


                
I was always a fan of the punisher reading the comic book first then finally came the first movie with Dolph Lundgren in 1989 no skull shirt but the movie was very good.Fast forward to 2004 and we had the saddest excuse for a Punisher in Thomas Jane, who plays games with is prey toys with them, putting John Travolta as a bad guy was a huge fail, and Kevin Nash looking like a piece of mint candy...... WOW..... it was the death of the punisher.War Zone in 2008 was a breath of fresh air with Ray Stevenson.I really hope they don't blow the series up because so far its a perfect 10 Jon Bernthal is an excellent punisher brutal no mercy, violent...... he stole the show in Daredevil too.There is not too much romance like in Arrow that ruined the series for me, and not too much drama either.So far prefect 10
About halfway through the first season and not sure how much longer I can take it... the fast forward button is getting used more and more often.I blame the writers - this season could have been told in 8 episodes or less. Every good writer knows that every scene has to accomplish several thing at once - the two most important being character development and advancing the story. This show repeatedly gets bogged down in character development - 5 minutes of two guys talking about guitars and how they met their wives??? - that has nothing to do with the story or plot; so it just sits there, dead in the water. Don't get me wrong - I loved The Killing, which is also glacially paced, but at least they managed to maintain some tension.If they're planning a second season, they'd better hire better writers who understand the basics of storytelling.


                
Wanted more Daredevil Punisher. The story line got pretty boring. Could have completely done without the female cop story line, just annoying and unnecessary.. Too many flashbacks. Story line drags. Lost interest with too many sub-plots.But most frustrating, Netflix had to go and ruin the show appeal by pandering to the liberal, anti-gun, troops are bad, guns are bad, white Christian NRA members are bad, pc bullish!t! Add some feminism to the mix to appease all of the liberal left. Again, Hollywood sh!t on a good thing! Why does there always have to be some political bs agenda being preached in every damn show now! Netflix, you had a perfect opportunity! All around disappointment.


                
The Punisher is a Marvel univers character. An unpowered guy with guns among heroes. Without that distinctive factor, he is just another angry guy with a gun like it as been done thousands of times. I had hope, with this series following a Marvel crossover that they would have understood this most basic fact, the core of the character. Yet its just another adpatation of some guy with a skull shirt shooting things. The Pubisher, the real one, the fun one that rivals Spiderman and Daredevil as yet to be done.


                
I really wanted to like this series. Jon Bernthal is the perfect actor for the Punisher. But the Punisher this is not. It's slow paced and lacking the violent retribution that is Frank Castles trademark calling card.I was waiting and waiting hoping the series would build up to a return of the Punisher we all know and love. But episode after episode we wait and only see one minor gang conflict and mafia shoot out. I never made it to the end of the series before I gave up.A real shame and a missed opportunity. Perhaps season 2 might be a better but don't count on it.
I loved Baron's Microchip character and Ennis' run was terrific.The first episode I had some hope, they skipped over the entire revenge pursuits and began with Frank in hiding. I wondered why until I realized that, yeah, that revenge plot is the plot for 1/2 to 3/4 of the action movies since the seventies, no need to rehash it again. The construction story arc was well done, I cared about the characters and the conclusion was satisfying.When they broadened the scope with Castle now dislodged from his little anguish nest/ comfort zone it all turns to awful sauce. Now there's more revenge necessary because the crossfire at the picnic wasn't the wrong place at the wrong time now, no it was all an elaborate spy guys Rube Goldberg Assassination to rub out Frank so he doesn't talk about his past murdering innocent Arabs in Afghanistan that somehow entirely missed the target of the whole triple blind mob assassin ambush dealio.The acting and characterization goes out the window, the only thing emoted are grunts and screams really and you don't care about any of the characters at all. Frank is now a former Pol Pot/ Papa Doc styled Death Squad Murderer so he may as well die unmissed being the scum of the earth now and it has all the nuance of a police procedural including obvious realizations designed to make someone exhausted after a hard days work feel like they're smart. Case in point, if there was anyone who didn't figure out Frank was in the trunk of Micro's car then I'm sorry for their developmental disability. Everywhere they went with that following hideout scene (which was so drug out and went nowhere)they may as well have had Micro ask Frank to just get out of the trunk as neither character grew in any trust of the other and Micro eventually regains the upper hand anyway showing the same clever that telling Frank to get out of the trunk would have.Spare yourself the anguish of what they've done to the character, it is as poorly executed as most of the other Punisher Movies and if the guy who did that laundromat short had any involvement with it then it was the construction story arc as that's the only worthwhile bit of this lame show at all. Cheers!
Punisher was promised as the 'most realistic' of the Marvel TV series, and as a fan of the comic, I had high hopes. But like some of its weaker Netflix cousins, halfway through Season One the low budget, slow pace and sloppy writing are starting to grate, and technical errors abound in the rare action scenes. And the cherry on top - it's packed with Hollywood politics guaranteed to alienate most of the core audience. I'll start with the good points. Jon Bernthal is well cast and turns in a solid performance as Frank Castle, and Ebon Moss-Bachrach's portrayal of Lieberman is growing on me. Both of the characters work well, even if Lieberman is the classic Playful Hacker with a Magical Computer that can do anything.Other casting is mixed. Amber Rose Revah isn't believable as Special Agent Madani, not the least because she isn't actually Persian and she is too young and glamorous for the role, right down to her high heels. At least they cast an actual Persian actress as her mother, (the awesome Shohreh Aghdashloo from The Expanse) although she is criminally underused. Likewise, Ben Barnes doesn't look or sound like a special forces veteran with multiple tours under his belt. He's young and pretty enough to be in a boy band (he was), and his British accent slips through. What really grinds my gears is the weak action scenes and lack of technical input from actual military or law enforcement advisors, which blows the 'realistic' claim out of the water. In general, anything to do with law enforcement or the military is inaccurate. Maybe the producers really think vets are all psychotic murderers and they wouldn't let one in the writers room? Their loss. Even allowing for suspension of disbelief, Frank is not a supernatural character with powers like Iron Fist or Luke Cage, but he is unfortunately written just like them, and the show suffers greatly for it. When they finally get around to some action, it's riddled with mistakes. A few examples:Frank goes hand to hand with Wolf, shoots him once with a handgun, then Wolf takes control of the gun, but it's revealed to be empty when he tries to kill Frank. Yes, Frank emptied the mag while Wolf was knocked out. But the slide would lock back when he shot Wolf with the last round, making it obvious to Wolf the gun was empty. A nice plot twist in a good scene ruined by an obvious goof by writers who are out of their depth. When Rawlins sends an 8 person CIA team into the woods to capture Frank and Gunner, the team are wearing US Army fatigues. On US soil. Posse Comitatus anyone? Do CIA secret hit squads sneak around in US Army uniforms? And why are they carrying H&K MP5 submachine guns? Of course, it's all irrelevant because Frank and Gunner manage to outwit the clumsy CIA team with just a bow and arrow. The whole exercise was laughable and looked more like weekend warriors playing airsoft. Special Agent Madani organizes a training session at Anvil. As an aside, anyone who has dealt with federal procurement knows that alone would take months. Anyway, we are shown Madani and Stein firing full auto weapons inside a regular office building while inexplicably wearing gas masks. Let's assume charitably they were firing blanks. None of the civilians playing as hostages in the same room have any eye or ear protection as the agents unleash their weapons. Newsflash to the writers, there are many ways to do tactical training but blinding and deafening participants definitely isn't one of them. We are told in Episode 1 Stein is the most junior agent at the Homeland Security office, and based on the Anvil episode he clearly doesn't have much tactical experience since he shot the hostage. But in Episode 4 he plans and manages a major tactical operation including selection of overwatch locations for three snipers. Stein's Powerpoint briefing scene before the operation was also ridiculous. There is no depth to so many of these scenes. I realize the budget is a factor but good writing could close the gap. In the same episode, Agent Madani is t-boned at speed by a truck while driving her 70's muscle car. We are shown she has a head injury and is concussed when Frank drags her from the overturned wreck, but the next moment she is at home in bed in perfect make up with mild bruising on her chest and not a scratch on her face. Apparently a couple of aspirin will cure anything. Never requiring medical attention is a common occurrence in the Netflix Marvel shows, even for characters without superpowers, but this one really stood out. If there are no consequences to any action scenes, why bother? Lastly, Frank is showing many times walking up and getting the drop on armed opponents. Episode 4 (again!) has two examples where he walks up to three armed bad car thieves, and also 'surprises' two armed agents with a flamethrower. I don't care how crazy or good the Punisher is, his blasé attitude towards guns pointed at him in situations where he had better alternatives doesn't ring true. The whole show starts to feel like a video game set to easy mode. OK, rant over. 5/10. Please do better Marvel and Netflix. Quit the preaching, fire the writers and hire some expert advisors.
It's up to you to believe me, but this show is just pure drivel. The story-line is just unfathomable and the central character lacks any semblance of personality. I got to episode 8 hoping it would improve but gave up 40 minutes in of 'talk-talk-talk-talk and more talk. It is, quite frankly, boring and lacking in action and good acting. Just watch episode 8 and you'll see what I mean. I cannot think of a more boring episode of TV in my whole life. If this show makes it to a season two I will be amazed, in fact it will be a marvel. The script writers need sacking. DULL, DULL, DULL!!!!!!! It ain't no Walking Dead.


                
First of all, let me thank one of the reviewers here for giving me one of the biggest laughs I've had in years by saying that the lead's performance was that of an emerging Robert De Niro, which would be around 'Taxi Driver' time. The lead is wooden. A poor actor. Which is why he's starring in a poor action TV drama.I've seen the movie (the more recent one) and I thought that was actually not too bad. This TV show? Garbage. We've got a (sort of) superhero who wants to open up with his feelings. Bless. You'll get to see countless minutes of him moaning about his life and dreaming of his dead family. He goes to therapy too. What superhero needs therapy? This poor show fills its time with lots of action and fighting. A few car chases here and there. A lot of political correctness too. White Christians evil , remember kids? A lesbian character with a sexist, racist boss, all the usual nonsense we've got used to. The boss is a white guy, of course.Yes, this show is for the braindead, I'm afraid. If you like 'punch, punch, bang, bang' and have the attention span of a goldfish, then this show will be right up your alley. The score of 9 on here is an insult to the universe itself. Rubbish unless you like guns, fights and whinging superheroes in therapy
Having never read the comics but having watched plenty of TV over the years I am qualified to say this is very very slow.Lots of people commenting on here are way into the comic book stuff and thats great for them, but as a TV show in its own right this is just plain old dull.


                
In my opinion this series is for stupid people who love action with good gore effects.Many scenes are very predictable. Every detective, soldier, guard or whatever unit there is, you name it, is retarded and can't think or do anything what normal real life person with a brain would do. I just don't like the way in films how people can't realize crystal clear things and situations goes bad because of that.Considering that everyone knows who Punisher is and how does he look like. There is no situation where this guy(Punisher) can't escape, like taking police car in the middle of the day and drive to headquarter or government building full of soldier and special sec guys. No problem, just walk away.Then He can take bullets and knives hits in every second fighting scene, go forward and recover like nothing happened. Basically he is like Wolverine in movie Logan...I'm not saying that everything should be very realistic, but this series just goes into Chuck Norris level too much and I don't like it.
I was completely ready to like this show. Jon Bernthal was amazing as The Punisher in season 2 of Daredevil. This show is slow and boring, and spends too much time on characters that no one cares about. Even the few brutal action moments, that come way to few and far between, can't make up for how much of a slog the rest of the show is. This is the last nail in the coffin for my hopes for Marvel Netflix tv series beyond Daredevil.


                
well, first off, I'm a huge Punisher Fan, love the comics by Garth Ennis, so, I have certain expectations when it comes to my favorite comic (anti-) hero and let's be honest, there is only but one decent Punisher movie and it's with Ray Stevenson! Fact! OK, now, first I saw the Punisher on Netflix as a side character in "Daredevil" and it was great, true Punisher feeling! Hard as nails and taking no prisoners, boy, was I surprised and glad, that they managed to capture him as he should be. And then they announced the Punisher Netflix Show, and I was truly excited for it, didn't watch any trailers, just not to spoil anything. and then November 2017 came around and the Netflix show arrived. And now I could write about everything wrong with this mess of a show, I mean, Netflix sometimes produces great quality shows, but most of the time, it's crap. and yeah, if you hadn't guess by now, it's the latter. Basicilly they turn The Punisher into Jack Bauer or "Homeland" or something similar. Just to say, we get the skull shirt/body armor in the first 5 minutes of the show, and then at the end for the last two episodes. C'mon, I mean, it's like taking away Logan's claws or Spider-Man's web things, it's iconic to the character! I could go on and on about what's wrong with this show, for me as a fan! But seems I am in the minority, the majority seems to like it. Once again, proof, you can't trust user voting! 3/10


                
Let me say. Season 1 was exciting, it was great. I never thought the acting was great, but the plot action and scenery made it watchableSeason 2, well. Let's just say the same thing that ruined iron fist and daredevil showed it's ugly head. FeminismThe main focus was the women. Which wouldn't be a bad thing if was actually supposed to be about them. But it isn't. They ruined another great marvel character to satisfy politics.Disgraceful


                
The problem with revisiting stories already told nowadays is what do you do with it? How do you make it different? Engaging?Well, the answer is ofc drama. You take an old story and dress it up with a bit of real life here and there. A struggling army veteran, a runaway kid, a tortured
father and husband. That is all fine and well until the drama takes over the whole narrative.This is a Marvel series. Marvel= Super heroes, villains, action etc. A Punisher series that contains 2 seasons of mind boggling ethical dilemmas and personal dramas with a sprinkle of violence porn. That's it, that's what Punisher is. Why the high rating? Well, you got me there. No clue.If you are looking for a drama series with a bit of action you are in the right place. Blah,blah sniff cry > Action, Heroes = Punisher.
First off - Netflix, save the 3 minute intro clip for Japanese Anime, not ever freaking episode of a tv show. Second, is Frank a superhero? With magic or supernatural powers? No? Then why can he take bullet after bullet after knife wound, after 40' fall, after endless pummeling and just continue on after a nights sleep.
This was my favorite TV show until they added all the sex scenes


                
An interesting concept and it kept my attention until the third episode when I realized the Punisher was whispering all of his lines. I know this is a technique that actors and directors seem to think adds emotion but to me all it does it seem fake and unreal. People do not go around whispering in real life.


                
Season 1 dragged at points but picked up points with grit and action. Season 2. Was pure American junk. Like an American car it looked good but had no substance or point, poor quality and a boring waste of time.Utterly disappointed that another good show is ruined by the need to accomodate the unintelligent masses. Guns, no logic, no intelligence, endlessly pointless plot lines.Midany, billy Russo, so bad, so boring and predictable.Such a shame.


                
