It is about many things, amongst them brotherly love, honour (you can't miss that in a Japanese film :) ), respect for life, etc... up to the meaning of life and death itself. But what I thought it started bringing into this world is what the Harry Potter books lacked: responsibility for your actions. You can't just do anything and not give something in return.However, along with good ideas, nice animation, beautiful scenery and appropriate music, there were some elements that I hated more than anything. The women in this film needed a good spanking, each and every one of them. Things that were important for the characters were completely ignored because these women had a vision about good and bad and a lot of feelings to be resolved. Also the silliness was above the comfort level. I mean, can you really feel a movie if people keep making faces at each other and getting annoyed by insignificant things while wars and death and magic surrounds them?OK, I understand that movies about responsibility are mostly directed towards children, but this could have been a more intense and with a wider success if the makers would have heightened the audience level a little.Overall, though, it is a great show. I can best relate it to Inuyasha, less about romance, more about brotherly love, and set in a parallel 1920s.Addendum: the series has a full length movie that really completes the whole show. I didn't feel it was part of the series, though, with a lot of characters out of... well, character, and some silly connection with Hitler and this side of the "Gate". Warning: seeing the movies without watching the series is pointless, you won't understand anything.


                
I been a fan of this series since December 2005.(Yes I started a little late).But I managed to catch up and saw the entire series.It's very cool too. And I'm glad it's an anime that no one would make fun of. Cause it doesn't suck like other animes that people always make fun of.The story is about 2 brothers who lived in a normal life till they learned how to use Alchemy. A Science and ability to transmute matter with equal balance. It involved Equilvent Exchange which plays a big role in being an Alchemist.The 2 Brothers are named Edward and Alphonse Elric. They were beginning to get the hang of using Alchemist like their own father. But he's been gone for so long they don't know why he's never coming home. One day when all seemed worst their mother past away because of an illness that hasn't been treated.The Elric Bros. were over whelmed by the site of their mom being dead. And they would like to do anything just to see her face again. So they learned more about alchemy by Izumi a teacher from the south for a few months, after their lessons they returned to their home town.They uncovered a technique that might be their answer in bring their mother back. Human Transmutation, a technique that's never been accomplished yet, because you can't bring anyone back from the dead. But they gave it a shout by using the right ingredients for an average Adult body and a human transmutation circle.Once that was all prepared they did the transmutation themselves. It appeared to be working right until something unexpected happened when they're about to pay the price for trying to bring someone back from the dead. Before you know it, Al's soul is in a suit of armor and Ed lost his arm and leg. The Human Transmutation was unsuccessful. They didn't bring their mom back from the dead, just something not human.After a period of sorrow and pain Ed got his own auto-mail limbs(Animatronic limbs for those who don't have any limbs). Ed decides to join the military so he can have access to learning the secret of a Philospher's Stone(A legendary stone that's suppose to give you the ability of unlimited power that alchemy doesn't require).So the Elric Bros. packed their things for their long journey. And they will encounter danger, mystery, rivals, and new friends.FullMetal Alchemist is highly recommend to those who want to see a great anime series that's not edited nor censored. It has language and violence so it's not a show for kids to see. Plus the English version is really good. It's available on DVD too.


                
I know most fans tend to compare this series unfavorably to "Full Metal Alchemist: Brotherhood", but personally I think this version of the story did many things right (and in some aspects, I think it handled a couple of parts of the story in a better way than the original) doing a pretty good balance of drama, suspense and comedy, with plenty of beautiful moments, even if the plot wasn't a 100 % faithful adaptation of the original manga. And honestly, I prefer that it tried to be its own things instead of stretching the plot indefinitely with lots of pointless filler (like in Naruto) and its conclusion, while quite different to the one from the manga, is still managed to be something quite satisfying.Both versions of Full Metal Alchemist are good, and personally consider both of them to be worth-watching.
I blame this series for single-handedly turning me into an unrepentant anime geek. And I can't wait to start Brotherhood! Yeah, I stayed up late watching. Yeah, I made mp3 files out of some of the songs. Yeah, I'm in my 30's. What of it? I teared up in parts, laughed in others. But mainly, it was the humanity, the themes of family bonds, forged and broken, the heartache of familial loss and betrayal, that drew me in. The story-telling and character dynamics are infinitely more involved and engaging than any Hollywood or Harry Potter amateurism, more exciting than Lord of the Rings and other big-budget show-offmanship adaptations. As a life-long film snob, I'd often relegated "cartoons" to the category of escapism or family entertainment...and while FMA IS this, it is also so much more. It has heart, it has political parallels to so many recent events and geo-political dynamics, it has philosophy and a sort of Buddhist bent ("all is one" etc.). Yes, it is fully deserving of that tired word "epic", as much as anything recited by Homer. Yes, I'm saying that. The dubbing in this series was also when I realized that dubbing DOESN'T HAVE TO BE AWFUL. Many series fail here, but FMA gets it right, for the most part. After all, while I prefer my non-English live action films to be subbed, as dubbing is effectively an insult to the actors on the screen (my opinion), I always find dubbing to detract from the very visual nature of anime. Its exhausting to keep your eyes darting up and down while trying to process all of the intense details, facial expressions and background work that go into every scene. Anyways, just watch it. Even when it seems to lose steam (as all stories kind of have to), keep watching it! Then quit your job.


                
I have first watched FMA: brotherhood and will use that series for comparison.The first half is very similar to the first half of FMA: B. There are some fillers however, and the general tone is a bit darker. Soms people complain there is too much of a difference, but I disagree. I think both of them are great, and the little differences make neither of them boring when you've already seen the other one.The second half however goes in a completely different direction from FMA: B (and the manga). The idea is great and has a lot of potential, the development however has quite a few flaws. There are some action and moral clichés, which are starting to make the series a bit more boring. However, it remains still a very good series, certainly worth watching even if you've already seen FMA: B.


                
Fullmetal Alchemist was the first anime series i got hooked on. I was shown the first episode, and everything about it i just adored. Having seen the entire series (3 times) and got it all on DVD (which is kind of difficult when you're living in England), i can now do a review on the series.Fullmetal Alchemist is a slow-to-star, but highly gripping anime. With a storyline that is half-based on the original comic, and the other half invented for the anime, we basically have a story following two characters, Edward Elric and Alphonse Elric, as they travel across Amestris to regain their bodies.How can this storyline work? who knows, in my opinion, if i look at what's bad about the series, i find that the storyline isn't great (especially the second half that wasn't based of the comic), the dub, despite working better when in English, it is poor at sometimes. Some of the characters are just terrible (I will never see the point of Archer) and the soundtrack isn't exactly awe-inspiring.So why do i like this anime so much if so much is wrong with it? It's the relationships between the characters probably. The bond between Edward and Alphonse is a bond any person with a sibling or very close friend knows about, and in the anime, it's communicated so well, that it makes you want to watch the series.Of course, that isn't the only reason why i love this series, but it's something that stands out for me.


                
First, I watched brotherhood but everybody declared this one as if this was better than brotherhood. I can say that hell no! After watching FMA, I figured out that they made an epic work by making brotherhood. I want to share my idea about these two series who can't decide to watch.FMA + Philosophy of alchemy and ironies, + Characters were dying when they were supposed to die + Side stories like Psiren and such + Revealing some points in the Brotherhood + Ed & His Fatrher's relationship - Sense of humor(ed was exaggerating his height but it wasn't funny) - Plot & endingBrotherhood + Great and complex plot + Awesome battles and action scenes + Musics + Complexity of match-ups until the last episodes + Sense of humor + Absurdness(I like good absurd situations) + Relationships - Exactly Borhterhood's end is better but it made me bother to see enemies were dying just they were supposed to die. They could find a death in a tricky way for the enemies.
