Oz is set in Oswald State Correctional Facility. It tells the story of confrontation, cruelty, violence, hate and survival at any cost. in a place like Oz, you have to have eyes in the back of your head.This completely original, intelligent and compelling drama tells of how warped life becomes as soon as you step through the gates of Emerald City.What is supposed to be a state of art correctional facility is in fact far from being such. The show brings to light some of the many flaws in the prison system, the underestimating of the humanity that cold hard killers are capable of still retaining, and the one true fact: The prisoners are the one's who control the prison.This magnificent and somewhat surreal show teaches about the importance of every life and helps give an understanding to the reasons that most of the prisoners are there. This show may seem shocking at first but to truly tell it like it is, such a thing is necessary.Oz is a great depiction of hell on earth and how such a place teaches you some of the most important lessons you will ever learn.


                
Oz, no Dorothy you're not in Kansas anymore. Oz is the television show that pushed the limits in what you can get away with on television.  Oz is real and violent, and it also makes for the single best series on TV, ever. With performance that grab attention, and some of the best direction ever on TV, Oz should be watched by ritual.


                
I've never seen a show with as much story, mystery, suspense, and hard-hitting excitement before. i barley watch TV anymore but i own every season of this show and it's amazing. every episode is extremely well-acted, written and plotted. towards the end of the show i felt that the stories were getting too far-fetched for being in a prison, but the actors pulled it off. Sopranoes sucks huge compared to OZ. in fact, any show that is on a cable network, HBO or not just cant hold a candle to OZ. i wish it would come back for one more season. if it did happen, they would probably kill off every character on the show, but hey, we all gotta go sometime. as far as the characters, i'd say O'Reily and Alverez were my favorites. both were hardley in a scene together, but their individual stories i thought were the strongest of anyones, except Beechers of course, but still... anyway, best show ever, best network ever, some of the best actors ever, PERIOD!


                
I just recently picked up this show, because I was bored with all the shows that get canceled after just one season. I wanted something that I could dig into for a longer time. I knew the show existed for quite some time and I always felt intrigued to watch it, but I just never got around to it. This show was just one big surprise. The acting is superb, the character development is just insanely great. The dialogue is thrilling, the humor is very subtle and the violence is very realistic. From the first episode I was completely hooked, and it only got better and better from the start. This show represents everything I miss in current TV-shows; psychologically challenging, sometimes so realistic that it becomes uneasy to watch. As if it was happening right in front of your eyes in real life. One of the best shows I've ever seen. For me, this goes right next to The Wire and the Sopranos.


                
This is my first review for IMDb, I usually use this site just to see what new movies and shows are coming out. But after seeing all of HBO's later shows leap frog it's first masterpiece I had to say something. Yes this is HBO's FIRST hour long drama, and if it wasn't for this show, many if not all it's later shows would not have existed.The best part of the show is the writing. Each episode starts with inmate Augustus Hill, (Harold Parrineau or "Micheal" from Lost). And focuses on different topics, such as race, law, society, love, etc. He does an amazing job of getting you to think about the lesson being taught. OZ takes place mainly in an experimental unit within the state prison called "Emerald City", managed by Tim Mcmanus. There is no one main story in OZ, (HBO never does that with any of their shows, ain't nobody got time fo dat). Each inmate has their own crimes that they committed, which is described by Hill in satirical form. Murder, torture, dealing t*ts (drugs in prison talk), rape all happen in this show so it's not for anyone with weak stomachs. All of their stories are separate but blend together beautifully. I was addicted after the first episode so check it out. Everyone's got time for game of thrones, make time for the show that MADE IT POSSIBLE!


                
Harrowing series about life in Oz--an experimental prison where they try to rehabilitate prisoners. There's gay sex, rape, torture, mutilation, killings, humiliation, tons of male nudity...all in your face and going full force.It also is easily one of the best written dramas ever put on TV and almost all the actors are just great. Since this was on cable there were no restrictions on what they could say or show. There's plenty of racist comments flying in here but it's for all races. In fact the white characters come off pretty badly (especially the Aryans) and the black characters come off better (the peace-loving Muslims). The Hispanics don't have a strong role and there are NO Asian prisoners at all. All the prisoners seem to be back-stabbers and willing to kill anyone at a moments notice---but you still find yourself sympathizing with some of them. Even the guards, counselors and doctors at the prison have serious issues.I heartily recommend this BUT rent it--don't buy it. I have the whole collection and, to be totally honest, I don't think I ever want to see it again. It's incredible TV but so grim, dark and depressing. I give it a 10.


                
Tom Fontana's unforgettable "Oz" is hands down one of the greatest television series ever created. Brilliantly written, acted, and directed it is as close to perfection in any art form (film, television, literature, music) as it gets. Haunting in it's extreme brutality it creates a prison world filled with diverse characters that range from compassionate to flat out terrifying. It is a show that no matter how brutal it is get through, one cannot take its eyes off of. The combination of professional trained theater actors with film and television actors allows for a range of diverse and all original performances.And while the show is universally praised and has/had a loyal fan base, one cannot feel that it was under-appreciated during it's television run because of other HBO dramas such as "The Sopranos", "Sex and The City", and "Six Feet Under". And while all those shows are fine and borderline masterpieces in their right, many people forget that it was "Oz" that was HBO's first entry into one-hour television drama series. It was a brave, risky first entry and with it HBO hit a grand slam with it. This is as good as it gets.


                
This show was so much more creative and real than anything on tv at the time. I now watch tv shows and point out the cast members of OZ on some of the biggest shows and in some of the biggest movies to this day.


                
Oz is one of HBO's best ever series. It is gritty and violent, yet ceaselessly compelling and riveting.The production values are consistently of very high quality, with skillful photography and an authentic setting. The writing is superb, in fact Oz is one of my favourite ever shows when it comes to written quality and the story lines are outstanding.Oz benefits further from efficient direction, strongly drawn characters and the acting particularly Ernie Hudson and Harold Perrineau I don't know where to begin praising.All in all, a brilliant series. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
In relative terms having watched a lot of disgustingly bad tele Tom Fontana & Levinson are geniuses for creating & delivering In this writer's book the greatest ever TV show. Oz was treated horribly In this country, the finale went out well gone 3 In the morning, before that It was strictly considered alternative viewing for those oblivious to prime time garbage.I first caught Oz towards the end of the first series and from then on It was an unmissable watch. My man Adebisi possibly the most Intimidating villain ever, Beacher the perfect anti-hero, Eammon Walker's Saeed an acting class In evocation. There was the hardcore stuff of course - some plain evil but essentially Oz had soul. Augustus narrates the unfolding plot with pearls of Insight while the struggles of Beacher, Mcmanus, Saeed, Rebedahl etc are better than any soap opera before or since. Compassion violence wisdom tragedy Intelligence pain joy brutality love & heroism Oz went through the spectrum of human emotion - all Inside a max security prison! I can honestly say those Thursday nights with the great Vids to follow Oz series 2/3 way back In 99 were the best TV I'll ever see. Beacher assaulting Vern In the gym Is a moment I don't need a video for - a small screen classic I'll never forget.Imagine what Oz would have done with the same push as the Sopranos given a 10 pm timeslot and all the promos??? Fine I'm over that now, for those that caught It consider yourself privileged for those who didn't TV is shite.......and you deserve It.


                
The shoe is as real and most quality show of ALL t.v.  It has some of the most interesting characters I've seen on t.v. in awhile.  My favorite characters would have to be Ryan O'Reilley, Miguel Alvarez, Kareem Said, and Simon Adebisi.  Oz shows what it really takes to make it on the inside, you have to be watching your butt at all times.  You can't trust anyone and no one trusts you.  It might not get as much exposure as if it where on a network or anything but being on HBO allows more creative freedom.  They aren't afraid that they will get censored and are just concerned about putting the best show possible on the boob tube.


                
I started watching Oz as a recommendation. I was hooked from the beginning. Stunningly acted by all. Beacher, Schillinger, Adebisi, Keller, Said, the O'Reily brother, Alvarez, Sister Pete, Dr Nathan, the Warden - I could go on and on but I love them all. I think all the actors without exception do an amazing job bringing these characters to life. I cannot fault anyone's performance. The show deals with some hard hitting and real themes like the the death penalty and the amount of African Americans in prison. Whenever I see any of the actors in Oz on anything else, I always refer to them with their character name from Oz. For example, Christopher Meloni is always Chris Keller to me. Same with Beacher.I'm now watching it the second time round because like a delicious morsel you can't get enough.


                
I admit that I almost gave up on watching TV shows. Why? Because most of them are about doctors, forensics or some girl/boy, who can predict a murder by sitting on the toilet seat. But I must say I was wrong when I watched the first episode of Oz, one of the most brilliant shows on TV until today. Oz is a show about maximum secure prison and shows episodes in life of every cell - mate inside the prison and their frustrations. What I like about this show is the fact it has the courage to show the real life in prison without any annoying characters, stereotypes and unrealistic dialogs. Even thought the characters in the show are not supposed to be heroes, you became quickly attached to them and their life. Sure, their is a lot of violence in this show and some disturbing images of rape and taking drugs, but that's the point of this show; to present how brutal and frustrating can be life in prison... heck, you can't show life in prison like a "clean environment" with "likeable characters", right? Oz is perfect in every way, the actors are doing an excellent job and the whole hour of this show is going threw really really fast. The only thing that I didn't like in this show was the last season of the show, I think it became too weird and brutal and the finale was not satisfying. But overall Oz is still my favorite show on TV so far, it surpasses Sopranos and million CSI and Dr. House crap with just a main title. Brilliant show which has the balls to show what other shows are taking away from us; realism.
What a great show! A very underrated dramatic show. It is great how there are no main characters and every episode some other character(s) are the main character(s).I think the best character on the show is Vern Schillinger. He is a tough, bad guy and an Aryan on top of that which makes him a true bad guy prisoner who there are many that are known to be. This show has many murders, I think it is a little over exaggerated for the killing on the show, but I have to admit that is one of the reasons why I think the show is so great.I think some characters were killed off a little early, but some sure still made their mark. You can't compare things like Prison Break to this show, they are totally different. I think some of the actors on the show are also very good and underrated and should what is due to them. A great show, my favorite's. A show that should be considered of the the greats for years to come.


                
This show has everything you could ever want from a prison drama. There are twists and turns all the way till the season finally. The characters are very strong, and it gives the show a lot of power. When watching the show you feel for not only the prisoners, but the prison staff. The actors who play prisoners on this show have done a very good job portraying a prisoner. Also if you like law and order svu or law and order criminal intent there are many actors from this show that appear in those shows. The only problem with Oz is that it was not long enough. This show could of easily had nine to ten seasons without getting old. Even after the season finale i sill find myself watching Oz all the time on DVD. This show is easily one of the best shows on television. Don't be a fool, go watch Oz.


                
One of the other reviewers has mentioned that after watching just 1 Oz episode you'll be hooked. They are right, as this is exactly what happened with me.The first thing that struck me about Oz was its brutality and unflinching scenes of violence, which set in right from the word GO. Trust me, this is not a show for the faint hearted or timid. This show pulls no punches with regards to drugs, sex or violence. Its is hardcore, in the classic use of the word.It is called OZ as that is the nickname given to the Oswald Maximum Security State Penitentary. It focuses mainly on Emerald City, an experimental section of the prison where all the cells have glass fronts and face inwards, so privacy is not high on the agenda. Em City is home to many..Aryans, Muslims, gangstas, Latinos, Christians, Italians, Irish and more....so scuffles, death stares, dodgy dealings and shady agreements are never far away.I would say the main appeal of the show is due to the fact that it goes where other shows wouldn't dare. Forget pretty pictures painted for mainstream audiences, forget charm, forget romance...OZ doesn't mess around. The first episode I ever saw struck me as so nasty it was surreal, I couldn't say I was ready for it, but as I watched more, I developed a taste for Oz, and got accustomed to the high levels of graphic violence. Not just violence, but injustice (crooked guards who'll be sold out for a nickel, inmates who'll kill on order and get away with it, well mannered, middle class inmates being turned into prison bitches due to their lack of street skills or prison experience) Watching Oz, you may become comfortable with what is uncomfortable viewing....thats if you can get in touch with your darker side.


                
Oz, is one of the most mind-blowing and addictive TV experiences ever.Having caught pieces of this on SBS, I was at first skeptical, however, having finished now the 4th season, I sadly know that that this brilliant show is approaching its end, (6 seasons), and yet I still can't get enough of OZ. Want something that will push your senses and your stomach to the limit...Oz fits the bill, hands down.This isn't kid's stuff, folks, its violent, brutal, and not pretty. Why, its a experimental unit inside a maximum security prison.Tom Fontana's Oz is brilliant in all the right departments, the actors, the writing, and directing.HBO's Oz site is also highly recommended, for newcomers, for info about this series. This was the first one-hour show, produced by HBO, and it proves what a master-work it is and that others would follow.Thank-You HBO


                
I've watched a lot of television in my 51 years, but I've never had so much fun week after week, as I had watching Oz. The acting by the entire cast was excellent. The writing was just perfect, with every character remaining consistent throughout the six year run. I also enjoyed the mayhem and the ultra-violence. It may sound odd, but it was at times, comical finding out how one of the characters would eventually end up dead. I particularly enjoyed the true romance and love between Beecher and Keller. Those two men really knew how to throw down, in every way possible. I truly hope that HBO will continue to show us re-runs of this great show FOREVER! I've watched every episode at least 4 times yet I still look forward to Tuesday and Thursday nights at 11 p.m. for an episode of this fun and very entertaining show.


                
Oz is without a doubt my favorite show of all time! the best word to describe it is "genius"! the writing, the acting, the story lines .. everything about this show is absolutely amazing! I just discovered the show and I became addicted to it right away and I was really surprised that it hasn't gotten the recognition it truly deserves. It is violent, and most of the characters aren't meant for you to like them, but the show is written in such a brilliant way that allows you to look past the violence and the criminals and see them as real people. They are the lowest forms of scum, but it still finds a way to allow you to understand a lot of the characters and even care about their stories.The violence in the show is necessary for it to be as realistic as possible, but the show isn't about the violence like some people might believe. It really is a work of art and I'm sure who ever gives it a chance will love it just as much as I do.


                
Much like Game Of Thrones now a days, I watched this show religiously when it came out. I looked forward to every episode, and every season, and yeah I was disappointed when they ended the show after only 6 seasons, but man, talk about some great work by these actors. It's cool going back now after all these years, and seeing actors in the show, who are now known for other great roles. Yeah sure it was fake as hell when it came to what actually goes on in prisons (I have friends who are employees in a couple prisons), but it was pure entertainment, and I enjoyed it, and that's all that matters.I wished they had gone a little further with a couple extra seasons, but towards the end it was obvious, they really couldn't go any further with the plot lines without possibly "jumping the shark". Although the ending was a bit anti climatic for me, and I wish it had been done differently, but all in all, it's a great show, and I enjoyed re-watching it recently, and I may even watch it again sometime down the road. Like I said, it's a great show that left me wishing for more seasons, and is definitely binge watch worthy.


                
POSSIBLE MILD SPOILERS! But nothing outright is said:I've never binged-watched a show this fast, this show is absolutely fantastic, especially considering it's a show that basically only takes place in like 6 rooms of a prison...here's my one gripe about the show: probably 85% of what happens in the story lines could have been avoided or solved quickly if this prison had SECURITY CAMERAS! This must be the only prison in the US that has no security cameras anywhere. Oh, there's been like 20 murders in the gym over the years? Well we better not put a security camera in there! Guns and drugs and fights and killings constantly keep showing up and happening in a certain corner of the cell block? Lets not install a camera there! The food keeps getting poisoned and people keep getting their throat slit in the kitchen? Nah, a security camera would be a dumb idea to install! Like I said though, besides that one glaring fact this show is amazing. It's pretty brutal, the acting is fantastic, and while there is man on man action at times, it's never usually too involved and the scenes last for a moment (I mention this for the people who are squeamish about this). It is also great as there are so many actors and music stars in their younger years who show up throughout the series (like the priest from Walking Dead and you see his pee-pee), as well as some great veteran character actors who always played great scumbags. I highly recommend this show.


                
Oz is definitely one of the best TV shows of all time. While the Sopranos gained all the hype, it was actually this show that had raised the bars even higher. So what is it about this prison which makes it so interesting? First, it's a violent show, remember; this is not your usual prison break story being told, it's a real prison with real criminals, where nobody escapes, and all these people try to do is survive. And because of this, there's always that killing tension of watching somebody die, the stress never burns out. Second, the show is manly, not one female character is as interesting as any inmate you may name. This may have hurt the popularity of the show in broadcasting, but it also gives the writers the chance to enjoy this amazing environment more and give us more abnormal stories. My advice? Watch the first season -the best one-, it's the best thing you can get yourself in a long time; and if you got hooked, -like I did-go to the next season. P.S: The series finale wasn't as awesome as Sopranos; it wasn't disappointing either.My rate : 10 out of 10
This show has no big award. How can people let this happen? This show is one of the best thing on TV by miles. The stories by Augustus Hill,presenting a new prisoner, not knowing who's gonna die next...every thing is great.I really wasn't sure if i'm gonna like a show with bunch of drug addicted black guy, disturbingly bad Natzi men. There's not one good character. Everyone is doing some bad things. It makes you one of those prisoner but you wouldn't wanna be there because that place is like hell. As a whole, Oz is a gripping series. It's cannot to be missed. You can start anytime. 9.7/10 Best Seasons: Compelete Series (6 Seasons)


                
OZ is an old TV series released by HBO. It shows the life in one security prison called Oswald, but the main plot is focused on Emerald City, which is one of the prison levels.Oz have an amazing plot and an outstanding cast! There are many of characters and almost all of them are very interesting. Basically they are divided in groups (gangs), the Sicilians, the Black people, the Aryans, the Gays, the Latinos and many others who doesn't have any specific group, but deal with many others like Ryan O'Reily (The Irish).The plot is very well built, there are a lot of conspiracy inside, a lot of fight for the power. But all of this is not just exposed in form of violence, all is very intelligent and smart, nothing happens without a reason, all is connected and very interesting to guess! I really love this series, and who wanna see something intelligent, very well produced with a very good cast and performances, MUST see OZ!


                
Oz is by far the best show ever to grace television. Better than The Sopranos, yes, ER, yes, CSI, absolutely. Uncompromising, daring, and utterly disturbing yet profoundly moving. Oz took us past any image of prison that anyone had ever conjured up on television. Tom Fontana truly did a brilliant job with the writing. No topic is taboo. Rape, drugs, murder. Oz is evidence of just how good TV can be. It follows characters of all different backgrounds and all different races, but always comes back to your everyman Tobias Beecher, in jail for vehicular manslaughter. We see what we don't want to see, pain, death, mayhem. Oz will disturb you, make you cringe, make you look away, but most of all it will make you think. To see Oz is to see a truly magnificent television production
