Words cannot describe just how much I hate this piece of s*%t "sequel" to one of the greatest films of all time. This film breaks every single one of my personal cardinal rules for what makes a great film, so I'll begin my rant...Right from the get-go it is evident that James Cameron's intent is on taking the subtleties and ATMOSPHERE of the first film (2 things that made the original so amazing) and turn it on it's head. Every single cliché you can possibly muster up is used in this filth...sorry, I meant 'film'. Melodramatic and extremely over the top dialogue, scenarios and acting all rolled in one.So within the first 15 minutes (with zero build up or development) Ripley is back, & has a DEEP understanding of the Aliens miraculously (as if her situation in the original has turned her into an expert on these Aliens all of a sudden.) They also now have boat loads of crews on the planet with the ship & have colonized it. Of course the people on site consist of all kinds of jokers and utter morons and...um, children?! OK, I guess because "families"...or whatever. Moving along... There is absolutely no suspense or build up in any way shape or form, like the original brilliantly had. Now they are seemingly surrounded by HUNDREDS of Aliens and the stupidity begins to overlap one another. Over the top performances by EVERYONE, absolutely cringe worthy dialogue and 'humor' and wise-cracks... In one scene a crowd is standing and staring at an object barrelling towards them with plenty of time to move yet they all stand and stare, until good old Ripley notified everyone to "RUUUUUN". Because apparently seeing the object coming towards them wasn't enough to garner a reaction, but our Alien expert hero telling them not to get hit by on-coming traffic seemed to do the trick. In another scene during a 'gun fight' with the Aliens, one super duper bad-ass commando doesn't just shoot an Alien in the face, he manages to have just enough time to stick the barrel in the Aliens face, have the Alien not react for a few seconds so the totally bad-ass commando looking dude could say "EAT THIS", before he pulled the trigger. Super duper gnarly. Rock on bro's...kick-ass..USA USA...Then we have the old "innocent child" caught up in the midst of this Alien war trick. "Oh what-ever will they do? I hope this object...I mean child placed in this film to supposedly tug on my heart strings makes it out of all this alive. Oh that poor poor innocent child, she doesn't deserve this. Welp!!" I'm on the edge of my seat at this point. Oh James Cameron you genius you. SOMEONE PLEEEASE think of the CHILDREN. Someone MUST save the girl, first and foremost. That is the mission now for our hero...... *eyes roll a full 360 in my head at this point*. The little girls screaming got so irritating I wanted nothing more than her to die. There...I said it.Why are the Aliens so stationary and dumb in this film? Why are there so many of them all of a sudden? They just keep bee-lining towards bullets and getting swatted around like flies. Just utter non-sense all around with this over-long piece of s*%t sequel. The music/score is atrocious with cliché symphonies that you hear in every sh*%ty Spielberg or Michael Bay film (to this very day unfortunately) where-as the original had a very unique, dark and mysterious overall score that only added to the amazing atmospheric scenes.This sequel is everything I hate about Hollywood. Everything I hate about big Blockbuster films...as we are currently experiencing today with super-hero films for example. Just boring repetitive dumbed down utter trash being passed as 'great cinema'. There are too many negatives I can point out about this film, but I think I've made my point. The original Alien, Ridley Scott's Alien is one of the greatest films of all time, Aliens is in my opinion, one of the worst & most boring films I have ever seen. It absolutely blows.


                
I usually like James Cameron movies, more than any Scorsese or Spielberg's actually, but this sequel just hurts me real bad. In Ridley Scott's movie, Ripley was a sexy heroine fighting with no massive weapons, who didn't cry for dead daughters or any of those dumb sentimental clichés that most people love but I don't. She was alone and fought. Even her ship partners didn't care for her. She was a horror survivor. Well, for Mr. Cameron that was all wrong. He thought Scott was portraying Ripley as a heartless and useless person, I assume, so he equipped her with the biggest machine gun out there packed with infinite ammo, so violence lovers can drool just staring at it and she only had to shoot, and he added a little girl to replace a coming-out-of-nowhere-dead-daughter (Bravo!), and wants me to cheer for the girl, cry for the girl, and love the girl while she screams like being possessed by a really high-pitched voice demon. Terrific. Well, I didn't do any of that. Instead I've started to hate her and the movie, and that's what I'm still doing. Along with the little girl, Cameron wants me to cheer for more cute people: the U.S. Army. Cool, let's say some people were living on the dead planet, so we send the Army in order to save them and save the day again for the country. Well, I'm not American, so I can't have any good feelings about their Army, I'm sorry. I'd rather watch "Avatar" anytime, at least Jim wants me to cheer for the right people on that one. Finally, while the Alien in Scott's 1979 masterpiece was a force of nature that nobody could kill, here Cameron introduce us a bunch of useless bugs that can be killed easier than an ant, just for the sake of appreciate all the weaponry and all the shooting. For that I'd rather watch Terminator. I find this sequel appalling, it destroyed the planet built by Mr. Scott, flooding it with the more basic clichés a movie can have. I hate this movie and specially the annoying little girl. Oh, and the end... a shameless rip-off. 1/10 because there's no 0/10.
I'm sorry to disagree with about 90% of this website, but I did not find this sequel to be anything but a rehash of the first. Not only is it a rehash, but it also brought to life, some of the really dumb stereotypes that exist in movies today. Crummy dialog that is fixed to sound 'cool' and 'awesome' or 'in with the times' and you know what? It isn't. Now, before you dismiss the rest of my review, I want to add that I tried to like this film. For a long while I tried to find some cool ways to see it, and you know what? I thought I had for a while. But you know, the thing s that so many people hold it up higher than the first, and I just can't see why. I guess I would be more open to give it a second chance, but people keep saying it is better than the first, and I just don't agree. I think the opening was alright, until the shock sequence when...uh-oh! She might have something in her stomach and.....oh, just a dream. HOW CHEAP! Why would they even rely that much on the first? Especially since it had been a good 6 or 7 years already? Jeez! I just thought that was mistake #1. Next, the film was quite intriguing, but that was because they discussed the originals damages. I just can't say when I lost it. Most of Sigourney's dialog was pretty awesome, and of course, Sigourney was GREAT. I'll give it that, but the rest, it just seems to imposed and buffed, and for what? It just crashes into all the rocks on LV-426.-Oops! There's another problem right there! They just HAVE to bring us to the scene of the crime, and...57 years later! UGH! Why not have the original beast find it's way to earth? Why not make a new type of disaster happen? Taking back to the original scene of the crime was unnecessary! My final word is that this film needn't have been made, but it was, and I watched, actually thinking it would be good. It could have, and should have been, but I just don't think it was. How do you follow the act of the original Ridley Scott classic? You don't! Sorry.


                
Ridley Scott once made a brilliant SF film called ALIEN - many years later he made an equally brilliant prequel called PROMETHEUS. In the years between, people tried to make their own sequels. One of these people was a man called James Cameron. First, he decided to make his version 'sentimental' by introducing an irritating child that kept screaming so Ripley could say dumb things to reassure it. (Fortunately, David Fincher had the brat killed off in time for HIS version.) Cameron also decided he would have the film dominated by a group of US Marines. These Marines were to have a combined IQ of about minus 5. All the Marines said things like 'Let's go!' and 'Oh my God, what is THAT?' Most irritating of all was Bill Paxton (shame on you!) - he ended every sentence with the word 'man.' Fortunately for the viewer, the aliens soon disembowelled him. The heroine of the film was to be given lines just as bad as the Marines'. The aliens were not scary, no matter how many there were. The spaceships looked second hand. After an hour of this farrago one's eyelids began to close. The Marines shot at the aliens with their huge weaponry. Lance Henriksen got his head blown off, but carried on talking. Happily, when the Marines were killed, death applied to their tonsils too. After this success, Mr. Cameron got to make a three-hour long film about a ship that was perfectly designed. It sank.
Of course this contains spoilers.I used to love this movie. It was one of my favorites, top five even. I loved the lines like, "Goddamn you Burke!!!" or, "Game over!" I saw this movie less than a week ago, after a long waiting period, it is horrible.We lag on for about 45 minutes before we even get to the planet. In doing that, we hear all of these lame lines. You can see a James Cameron line coming a mile away (The guy writes lines he wants people to quote, he doesn't actually write).1)"Hey man, all I gotta know is where they are..." 2)"Vasquez, you're just too bad." (High Five) What? How stupid can people be? I'm not talking about the people who actually enjoy it, I'm talking about these horrible marines! What kind of lines are these!? Do people actually train like this in the future? Oh no.Again, about the lagging.James Cameron. you bastard. You put a dream sequence of an alien (really crappy quality too) popping out of Ripley's chest to keep us appeased for an hour? When we do see the *Aliens*, all they are are mindless drones, ants. The Alien was not an ant. An ant cannot survive by itself. The Alien was smart, fast, and scary. Yet, we hardly saw him.I hate you James Cameron. You are boring."HAHAHA!", laughs the black Sargeant. A girl can drive a machine! She can move a joystick, and her feet! This scene is so pointless, but of course, not. How could we believe she could kill that big-ass queen/ (PAUSE) Why did Ripley go for the eggs and queen when the reactor was going to wipe them out anyway? Ripley's stupid action (Well, Cameron's stupid writing) cost Bishop his torso. She calls the queen a bitch? Hey, she destroyed her kids, why shouldn't the queen kill a frog, oh, sorry, *Newt*. Oh I get it, Cameron wanted more action. Ho ho ho, J.C., you're good.(UNPAUSE)...without us (the viewers) knowing that she could use that machine? Oh, Jim, you're a genius!!! Bill Paxton, you are horrible.I liked the spacecraft in the beginning, but I've seen the effect in 2001, much better too. Oh, and Star Wars pulled it off with lots of ships. So wait, I've changed my mind. Cameron is again unoriginal.Just watch this movie. Listen to the dialog (Yes, I know how to spell, but IMDb won't let me add the "ue"). I'm going to watch every other Cameron flick I own, and then probably sell a copy to one of you that gives my review a thumb down.-Trey Benton
If only ALIENS were a horror movie as Alien and its true sequel Alien³ are. This mindless shoot 'em up with its TV formatted aspect ratio is clearly the black sheep of the original trilogy. It is enjoyable, yes - but as an ALIEN film it definitely doesn't cut it. Perhaps they should have given the project to Stallone or Schwarzenegger and waited until they had drawn up a script that would have fitted the criteria set by the first movie. We have James Cameron to blame for clearly not understanding that classy horror films should not be about macho gun wielding Rambo antics and people admiring and greasing up each others muscles. Thank goodness Alien³ restored the franchise to its bleak and artistic horror roots.
The first of these movie, "Alien," is in my DVD collection but not the rest, beginning with this sequel. I'm sorry but having low-life people portrayed as astronauts is ludicrous and insulting. I put up with it in "Alien," but it's even worse in this film, beginning with Sigourney Weaver's character who is extremely profane and butch-like in her macho-feminist overdone characterization. Who cares about scary aliens when the supposed "good guys" are this sleazy? The cast fits the scummy people perfectly as these actors are known for these kind of roles. It's just another in a line of films directed by James Cameron that feature scumbags as the lead characters.Of course, the sick critics loved it. Figures.


                
This has got to be so far the WORST in the series. I am split on this and Alien 3 on which one is worse. First of all there is a cat. I hate cats, deal with it! 2nd is Bill Paxtons WORST role in film. I cannot believe they made an embarrassment of the talent he has in this film. It is one of the cheesiest scifi movies I have EVER seen and I refuse to add it with my blu ray collection. The whole time I watched this I was hoping the cat would get eaten by an alien but nope! The acting was so cheesy I thought I was watching a low budget scifi film the whole time. This installment is pure trash and is def on my top 10 horrible films of all time! Save your brain and eyes from absorbing this terrible peice of cinema. I am so glad I didn't catch this in theaters as I would demand a refund. All copies of this should be burned and I would rather watch the Star Wars holiday special than endure the time I lost of my life watching this. What on earth was James Cameron thinking!!!!?
