Aliens (1986)I had a revealing experience these last two days. I heard "Aliens" without watching most of it (I was in the other room). And the script is really really bad. I mean stupid bad, with these quasi military people fighting against the monsters and saying canned military things that are taken not from real army dialog but from other movies. The events really boil down to a series of missteps, and even though this band of Marines is made of tough "hombres" sure enough, they can't seem to get along, or get things done, or even hold their overly heavy weapons up straight.I did watch for part of it, and I have seen the movie more than once before, and I'm a fan of the first one, "Alien," from 1979 (on the heels of the "Star Wars" craze). I expected it to be pretty good, like the first one, which has real character development and an original kind of premise. But...well, think again.Hey, I agree with most--the set design, the sense of action, the light and camera-work, the whole larger than life experience of being in this forbidding place, this is all great. Even the over the top "movie music" is appropriately symphonic and big. There's no way around the fact the movie is well made, and feels convincing in these palpable terms. It looks great top to bottom, and even on contemporary terms (we are a quarter century later as I write), it is sophisticated. It has aged well. If that were all that mattered--and for some it might be!--then all is well.But for me, I was still thinking there might be some interesting, chilling plot to follow. This second installment, always confusing in its plural title "Aliens," is filled with a combination of stale ideas (taken politely from the first round) and romping action adventure boy stuff. It is if more intense than the first (more fighting, more firepower), but it's far less creepy. It has more goo, and more gore, but less horror, and less fear. As with the original, the lead character is a woman, and indeed a whole bunch of the Marines are women, and so this is no simple manly movie. But it remains a macho movie, or a "machisma" one, and that will suit many viewers fine. But if you are remotely interested in the science fiction aspects, or even the terror of the first movie (which was truly terrifying), you might be disappointed to find you are continually battered instead. It's great battering, but if you actually listen to the dialog (when there is any--the best parts of the movie are merely sounds), you'll see what I mean.James Cameron, the director here (and not the director of the first one, which is credited to the more original Ridley Scott), does the famous Cameron thing, playing a kind of "Star Wars" game of making an epic suited for about a 17 year old. Not that older people (and younger) can't enjoy it, but movies have their target points, and that's it here. You can see it in the dialog and plot, of course, but also in the overall feel of things, which is a combination of early computer games (1986 is a long time ago in those terms) and swashbuckler classics. It's a vivid, fast movie.You will notice, in retrospect, some "Avatar" features that are interesting, beyond just Sigourney Weaver. Foremost, this is a military affair, very right wing, go-get-em stuff, but with the admirable (American) rise of the individual above the chaos of both internal logistics and the logic of the evil outer world.The monster? Monstrous. The famous designer H.H. Giger is not involved here except by carryover from the first. It's a good thing he was the originator because the basic visual and sculptural quality of the monster, the planet, the ships, and the sets, is under Giger's brilliant sway, and is a defining quality of the film. It makes no biologic or engineering sense, but so what? It looks great.In all, clearly, there are amazing things here, taken on their own level. But there are discouraging ones, too, for those who are willing to pay attention. The little blonde girl at one point says, "Mommy...I mean Ripley, I'm scared." And Ripley (Weaver) says, "I know, Honey. Me, too." That's the core of it all. Don't forget your grenade launcher.


                
While this sequel is an exciting action-fest, it is ultimately inferior to Ridley Scott's original masterpiece and Cameron's own earlier triumph, The Terminator.Set 57 years after the terrifying ordeal of Scott's Alien, the story begins with Lt. Ripley (Weaver) waking from hyper-sleep and follows her as she defends her actions of blowing up the Nostromo all those years ago. Moving swiftly on, as this film often does, a half-hearted plot is simply a poor excuse for lumping Ripley with a bunch of extremely dumb-witted and frankly, quite boring Space Marines, as they embark on a mission to rid a local planet of the terrifying creatures that the lieutenant is all too familiar with.The story in this film clearly was not the primary focus of the crew involved as the audience is made to sit through one tired cliché after another. We have the cocky marines who we know are going to last five minutes. We've got the quiet marine who is destined to be sole survivor. We've got a space shuttle crash landing and in effect trapping the unfortunate party on this desolate planet with only the Aliens for company. So far, so obvious.The opening hour of this film is throw-away to say the least as this is a film which has one gear, fifth gear and when it's not speeding along it's certainly at a standstill. The real action begins as the marines infiltrate the planet and as expected, don't get the warmest of welcomes from the Xenomorphs. Cue lots of gunfire, lots of frantic camera work and lots of screaming. As the dead weight of the cast is dealt with, we are left with Ripley firmly back in charge as she leads the remaining Marines and a girl called Newt, who they discovered on the planet, to as much safety as possible.The introduction of Newt is one of the stronger points of this film. It is a clever turn by Cameron as it gives the chance for Ripley's character to grow and display a maternal side that otherwise would never be explored in such a film. The performance from Carrie Henn as Newt, is one of sweet charm and more charisma than 90% of the Marines that are dragged along for the ride.Other than the character of Newt, the other highlight for the film is the Aliens themselves. As typical with sequels, we get a whole lot more of them. They really are a truly terrifying creation. One set piece in particular that works beautifully is where Newt is alone in a flooded corridor as the Xenomorph is stalking her. It's a scene full of suspense as Ripley and Hicks - the quiet Marine portrayed by Michael Biehn - use a tracking device to find her only to see that she is on the floor level below them. As Hicks begins to cut through the iron railings to get through to Newt, the same tracking device begins to beep again as a vast amount of Aliens move in. This scene is head and shoulders above the rest of the film and as the Alien reveals itself behind Newt, it is done so in a way that would not have looked out of place in the sublime original.Unfortunately for this reviewer, those scenes are just too few and far between in this sequel to warrant praise parallel with the original. The ending is another poorly judged action sequence involving a Queen Alien - which moves almost as awkwardly as the skeletal Terminator at the end of that film - battling Ripley who straps on a sort of dumper-truck like suit. This, for many, is an iconic scene. For me, it's as ridiculous as it sounds.While this review is largely negative, that is due in no small part to the fact that it is the follow-up to one of the greatest sci-fi/horror/suspense movies ever made. If it was a stand-alone actioner, it would be praised for certain elements such as the aforementioned Ripley/Newt bond, but if it wants to wear the Alien tag then it will be reviewed in that context.In conclusion: The original Alien drew comparisons with Jaws for it's suspense and more importantly, the style in which both films were crafted. Aliens in many senses can be compared to Jaws 2. Everything's bigger and bolder, but certainly not better. However, as with Jaws 2, there is some strong material, just don't go looking for something on the level of the original as you'll be bitterly disappointed.6/10
After 7 years, "Alien" is back, this time brought by another great director, James Cameron, shifting the focus of the movie a little, bringing it from terror to action, but still without losing its origin completely. With an apathetic script, where we have a situation to bring the legendary lieutenant Ripley back to action, even though not being extremely creative, the script never gives in to ridicule, on the contrary, it takes itself seriously and we take it too seriously. 57 years after the events of "Alien", Ripley returns to the planet LV- 426 to help families who explore the place, this time accompanied by a troop of soldiers, the "Aliens" end up being underestimated ... With less terror and more Action, the script still pleases. Technically the film is exquisite, having the face of the 80's, but better done, packed with visual effects that appeal to this day, James Cameron does well. Lastly, "Aliens" is a good continuation and a natural evolution of Plot, characters and context, but will never have the charm and impact of its predecessor.


                
Switching the focus from suspense to action wisely reduces the risk of direct comparison, making this sequel one of the few that presents a solid case for perhaps besting the original. For me, 'Aliens (1986)' is slightly weaker than its predecessor but is still a fun experience with some engaging set-pieces (especially a tension-filled face-off with a face-hugger) and a fantastic finale. It is at its best when it brings in the suspense elements that the series so desperately needs, but it always keeps a keen focus on the horrific nature of its eponymous creatures even though their impact is severely diluted this time around. It successfully follows up one of the best horror films of all time and doesn't just rehash it, which is to be admired, but also manages to stand alone as a great film. 7/10


                
'Aliens' is the 2nd film in the Alien film franchise and probably the most popular film in the aforementioned franchise. Written and directed by James Cameron, this film begins after the events in Ridley Scott's 'Alien'. Ripley survives after her escape vessel is recovered after drifting across the galaxy while being in cryogenic sleep for 57 years. On Earth, no one believes her story about the events on the planet LV-426 which she experienced and she loses her licence. The Weyland-Yutani Corporation had already ordered the colonisation of LV-426 during Ripley's extended absence. But suddenly all communication with the colony gets lost and the company decides to send a team of tough, rugged, space marines to investigate the situation along with Ripley to help them with her knowledge. James Cameron did something exceedingly brave when he decided to practically change the genre in the sequel to an immensely popular original film. While Ridley Scott's 'Alien' was sci-fi horror with elements of tension and claustrophobia, Cameron's 'Aliens' even though it still retains some of the slow tension building in the 1st half, is basically a straight up action blockbuster which makes it much more accessible to the general masses. It has the 80s written all over it. This film raises the stakes and makes everything bigger and louder than 'Alien'. There are explosions, there are machine guns, and this time instead of one, Ripley along with the other marines faces a whole army of Xenomorphs. The film again looks beautiful and the visuals hold up on Blu Ray. Cameron's craft as a director can't be doubted after watching this. Cameron holds the tension in the first half and then bombards the viewer with one brutal action set-piece after another in the second half.When it comes to the themes, Cameron actually retains the theme of the ill-effects of capitalism that was a part of 'Alien'. But although this capitalism angle does appear in 'Alien', Ridley Scott was a little more subtle, while I felt Cameron went a bit overboard to drive home the evil corporation element in the storyline and at times it became slightly unrealistic. Another element is of course feminism. Ripley, I believe becomes the true action hero in this film more than in 'Alien'. She overcomes all the naysayers above her in the hierarchy and truly owns her power and evolves into a truly powerful woman. We also clearly see strong themes of motherhood running throughout the film which again is handled in a slightly overt way. But there also hints at racism in the script and this racism theme I think is what Cameron handles the best with the requisite amount of nuance.Unfortunately, this film didn't have the lingering effect that 'Alien' had in my mind. I preferred 'Alien's subtlety over the big and blockbuster feel of this film. The grand scale of the action sequences in this film genuinely makes 'Alien' look like an indie horror film. But I thought the endless action sequences although very well directed in the end to some extent diluted the overall effect and at times went into ridiculous territory. The film also has a number of endings like 'Return of the King'. There are also certain relationships that are forged in the course of the narrative that made me correctly predict who is going to live in the end and who won't. Sigourney Weaver is absolutely brilliant in this film. She richly deserved the Oscar nomination. She conveys every emotion possible in the film be it frustration, love, anger or fear. She also completely commits to the role and becomes a compelling action hero. Ripley evolves from the role of indefatigable survivor in 'Alien' to the role of the tough, bad-ass mother in this film. Although most of the characters in 'Aliens' lack the realism and are not as believable as the Nostromo crew in 'Alien', but they are entertaining and funny. I'll give a special mention to Bill Paxton, Jenette Goldstein and Michael Biehn. 'Aliens' is a film that I can enjoy a lot and watch over and over again. But every time I do, it somehow fails to stick in my mind for too long due to the over-dependence on action sequences. It is a big 80s action film that is one of the best of its genre, but still in my eyes not as deep and satisfying as the original film in the series.


                
The planet from Alien (1979) has been colonised, but contact is lost and a rescue team is dispatched. This 1986 sequel is action packed, bigger, louder, very gung-ho with Vietnam parallels.I'm torn<U+0085> I must say that at the time Aliens was the best action sci-fi films ever and probably still is, but overtime, I have grown less fond of Aliens and prefer the first Alien and re-edit of the 3rd.What is superior about Aliens is that it builds on what Ridley Scott created in first film, (even though some of Aliens ideas are based on cut scenes) surprise killings, misdirection and so on. The design and movement of the Alien is greatly improved, making the Alien far more menacing and agile than before. Space is stark, dark and cold and James Cameron captures the isolation and ominous atmosphere perfectly, with an effective use of lighting, shadow and set design.There's no doubt that Cameron is an exceptional director and writer. All the characters are built up slowly, Lance Henriksen as the synthetic Bishop and Paul Reiser as Burke give subtle performances. Michael Biehn as Hicks and Sigourney Weaver are terrific. Ripley as a character is fleshed out further and the effects and sound are amazing (winning Best Visual Effects and Best Sound Effects). Aliens is an unsurpassed solid sci-fi horror sequel packed with action and suspense but in retrospect it really is Alien pumped with more Ripley, testosterone and guns.


                
WARNING: SPOILERSIn a way, a sequel to Alien was inevitable. It didn't need one, of course, but the Hollywood profit machine saw fit to churn one out. And, compared to the likes of 'Jaws 3' ('Jaws: The Revenge' does not technically count as a film) they could have done a lot worse.It was pretty obvious that any sequel to 'Alien' was going to have a hard time on it's hands. Ridley Scott chose to reveal his monster at the end of his film which meant nobody was really going to be scared of it lurking in the shadows any more. What James Cameron instead chose to do was give us more aliens. Lots of them. That way we'd be scared of overwhelming opposition. And how do we defeat lots of aliens? The only way Jim knows how: guns.'Aliens' handles the continuing story of Ripley well, when they could have easily chucked it all away. It also remains faithful to the 'mother and child' undercurrent that was present in Alien (in a warped way, of course) by reinventing Ripley and the alien as mothers. 'Aliens' is hailed as one of the greatest action films ever made and it may be. What's amusing about that statement is there is probably less than ten minutes of action in the entire film. So, if I'm lavishing all this praise on 'Aliens' then why did I only give it seven out of ten? Well, my reason is this: 'Aliens' single-handedly ruined 'Alien's' legacy and gave all the sequels the excuse to be substandard. A lot of the criticism people hurl at 'Alien3' and 'Resurrection' is present in 'Aliens' yet people can't or won't see it because it has "badass marines in it!"One of the main problems is James Cameron hauls all the cliche action characters he can think of out of the woodwork for his film, from the quiet but resilient corporal to the loudmouth private who goes to pieces to the butch hard-as-nails woman. And these are the characters we even RECOGNIZE before they die! A far cry from the gritty and realistic characters of it's predecessor.But my main problem with 'Aliens' is what it reduces it's title stars to. Ridley Scott gave us this uncomprehendable nightmare in 'Alien' In 'Aliens' we have Hudson wondering if "maybe it's like an ant hive!" And, sure enough, 'Aliens' saves the big finale until last when we meet the alien queen. Sure, it's impressive and well designed but it isn't scary. None of these new aliens James Cameron decides to give us are scary. The horror, the mysteriousness and the intelligence present in the original 'Alien' are now only reserved for the alien queen. James Cameron has successfully turned the most innovative, unique and terrifying creature in to mindless cannon fodder. An interstellar termite. The effects of 'Aliens' are also starting to date, the dropship sequence in particular doesn't compare to the shots of the Nostromo in 'Alien' And the suits themselves look uncomfortably hokey, like rejects from a Japanese monster movie. If you want a good action movie, watch 'Aliens' If you want a scary monster movie, watch 'Alien'
The plot happens many years after the events in the first Alien movie. Sargeant Ripley and her cat (The only survivors of the first movie) had been in hibernation for a long time in the vessel they used to scape. After some events, they end up in a planet with thousands of aliens.There are somethings in common "between" alien and "aliens". Sgt Ripley is there, many people dies, and of course the aliens in the second film are the same species as the creature in the first film. But the resemblance ends there. While the first film is a thriller, the second is an action film with lots of guns and firepower. Which of the films is better, is a matter of taste: Do you prefer action or thriller. I personally prefer the first, but the second part is quite a nice film (The third part is mediocre, and the fourth is awful)
Whilst in 1999's "Alien" most of the time we're expecting for the big thing, this one is the opposite. We have aliens here and there every time, with much more action than the first installment. One thing to praise in this picture is the GREAT direction James Cameron showed; he knows how to make suspenseful scenes and a well built atmosphere. Actors are also very professional and do their job as we expect. Everything was going very fine to me, until Ripley decided to go back to the infested "plane" to save that annoying little girl. It sounded SO Cliché that I almost gave up on this. Surely it doesn't spoil the movie's quality in general, but it lost some points with me after that. Also, it's irritating that when we think the movie is over, Cameron revives a monster or create a new one out of nowhere. All in all, it is a great movie, but I still stick to the first version.
Story/Plot - The planet that the mining ship landed on in Alien has now been colonized by the Alien race. Contact has been lost from the humans on this planet and a rescue mission must be mounted. Yes they have more up to date equipment and ammo but is this enough to rid the planet of aliens.Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is once again faced against these alien life forms, this time they are stronger than before. She is joined forces by a team of commandos who do their best to take control of the planet. Faced with the dilemma of not being able to trust an artificial, what will Ripley do when her life is in the hands of an artificial.My verdict - Watch in suspense and awe as the aliens are annihilated and Ripley comes out the stronger once more.Great performance by Sigourney Weaver keeps the Alien series in check. Once again the effects for the time of filming are second to none.
I love this film, and this is totally different kind of film than the ALIEN. This is a great film in general, except one character screw the whole film up, NEWT, the little girl. Her screams make me nuts from the moment it starts, and she screams ALWAYS. I don't think screaming is a good expression of scaring film like this and scream make the film like a cheap C-grade scary movie, and this is contrast to the ALIEN silent-horror which make the first film classic.On the other hand, all other elements in the film are great. The story are great, Actors / Actress are great, design are great, music are also great. If you could ignore these stupid screaming (which I couldn't......), you will enjoy and love this classic horror Si Fi movie.


                
James Cameron's follow-up to Ridley Scott's classic original is not so much a haunted-house horror movie as a shoot-em-up actioner. Cameron though does build up the tension excellently, enhancing the story and developing Weaver's iconic Ripley character while at the same time introducing a bunch of far more interesting characters rather than the simple fodder of the first film where the alien was the star of the show. They make the film entertaining, packing it with gung-ho machismo and bad-ass one liners but when the action comes it is, in my opinion, disappointing.The alien as we found out in the first film is a terrifying horror Sci-Fi invention but here it plays second-fiddle, becoming nothing more than an extra being blown away like a bad guy in a Schwarzenegger movie. Also Cameron seems to cut away from the best action so you don't have an idea what is going on half the time and the film's latter half spends most of the time building to the inevitable predictable narrative peril scenario. However, Cameron is no doubt a deft-hand at creating palpable claustrophobia and a grand-stand finale and in this sense Aliens doesn't disappoint.


                
James Cameron, the action director of the 80's (and now the 90's), has done it again with this sequel to the very suspenseful 1979 film. Its action sequences are unparalleled (apart from "The Terminator" films) all being, as per vintage Cameron, excellently choreographed.This new directors cut does give depth to the characters of 'Ripley'(Sigourney Weaver) and 'Newt'(Carrie Henn), but it makes the film too long. All the added footage is unnecessary, as "Aliens" is essentially an action film, and it is in this mode that it works best. For mine, stick with the original version.The whole cast is very convincing, the special effects (especially 'Alien' effects) are top notch and James Horner's music works very well. A taught, relentless actioner that never lets up once it finds top gear. Great stuff.NB This is the special re-edited version from James Cameron, running at 154 minutes rather than 137 minutes.Sunday, June 7, 1992 - VideoCameron's fantastic actioner is marred only by over-length. The special edition, with an extra seventeen minutes of unnecessary footage, only makes things worse. "Aliens" is for too long at 154 minutes.Still, when it is at full throttle, it is a great action film. Don't see it too often though. Or do some serious editing of your own if you do.Tuesday, September 29, 1992 - VideoFrom ultimate suspense to ultimate action. The very astute James Cameron saw a great actioner in this sequel to Scott's '79 suspenser. In his wisdom, he made a very different film."Aliens" is a romp that sees Ripley become one of the greatest big screen heroes ever. Sigourney Weaver is tops again, and is backed up by a bad cast of marines including Bill Paxton, Michael Biehn and Jeanette Goldstein. Paul Reiser and Carrie Henn also star. James Horner provides a top military score. Sound and visual effects are awesome.Top marks to Cameron and producer Gale Ann Hurd for bringing us some of the best action sequences ever. A superb exercise in excess.Saturday, January 30, 1999 - Video
Director James Cameron's follow-up to Ridley Scott's 1979 sci-fi classic ALIEN wisely avoids the potentially fatal error of attempting to recreate the original film's style and structure, and successfully strives for something completely different. Instead of a brooding, space-age horror movie like the first film, ALIENS actually plays like a war movie in space. The emphasis is more on action than terror, and this new direction works surprisingly well even if Cameron's clunky dialogue often thuds. While it may lack the much of the haunting aura and "art house" inventiveness of the first film, ALIENS delivers on all accounts when it comes to breathtaking action and suspense.In an Oscar-nominated performance, Sigourney Weaver is absolutely sensational as the returning Lt. Ripley. Although some may complain that Weaver's RAMBO-esquire physical feats are nothing more than the continued macho-ization of women (and they would have a valid point), I defy anyone who questions the credibility of this actress' commanding performance. I typically loath it when films of this genre attempt to incorporate "cute" kids into the action, and nine-year-old Carrie Henn is a bit too sticky sweet for my taste, although her presence in the film does eventually provide a satisfying emotional playoff. The remainder of the cast includes a likeably varied group of put-on heroes, with Michael Biehn, Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein all turning in memorable portrayals.In 1991, Cameron released his "Director's Cut" of the film, which over 17 minutes of previously cut footage. Most of the film's fans consider this extended cut to be the definitive version of the film, yet I personally have some reservations about some of the re-added scenes. While the many moments of character development (like Ripley adjusting to the fact that so much time has passed since her previous adventure, and a surprisingly moving moment when Hicks and Ripley exchange first names) are terrific (and probably should have never been cut), but the scene where Newt's family discovers the aliens was better left to the imagination. I personally feel that the original theatrical cut should be watched first, but, either way, ALIENS remains one the finest sci-fi actioners.


                
James Cameron's "Aliens" is, in my humble opinion, the definitive Humans vs. Aliens movie. As far as I'm concern, every film that has come after "Aliens" are inferior clones. Even the animated "Final Fantasy", for all of its cinematic breakthroughs, was nothing more than a rich man's "Aliens." It's no surprise then that "Aliens" is the film by which I measure all Humans vs. Aliens movies.What makes "Aliens" a classic is how it brilliantly lulls you into its world with a sense of security before assaulting your senses with a barrage of American firepower, acid-spewing aliens, and claustrophobic tension. In fact, the movie doesn't even kick into high gear until well after the 50-minute mark, but as soon as that happens, the film never relents. The way the film manages to sustain its high-octane power, while never compromising on its quiet, personal moments, is just incredible."Aliens" is James Cameron's sequel to Ridley Scott's 1979 "Alien", a cerebral experience that attempted to scare with atmosphere and paranoia. "Aliens," on the other hand, is content to thrill with firepower. The film brings back Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), the only survivor from the first film, who has been frozen in cryo sleep for the last half century or so. Awaken into a new world she is ill-prepared for, Ripley is informed that the alien planet where the alien creature that terrorized her commercial vessel (from the first film) came from has since been colonized by humans. Oh, and it just so happens that said colony has gone off the radar, and the colonists are believed...in trouble.Ripley is asked to return to the alien planet as a guide to check up on the colonists. She is hesitant at first, but eventually agrees out of a need to resolve unfinished business (of the personal and alien-killing variety, natch). The bulk of the rescue crew consists of Marines, including the easygoing Hicks (Michael Biehn), the loudmouth Hudson (Bill Paxton), and the inexperienced commander, Gorman (William Hope). No sooner does the crew land on the planet that it becomes apparent things have gone terribly wrong. In fact the colonists are either all dead, fed on, or are being used as breeding apparatus by the aliens! "Aliens" is the perfect title for this movie. Whereas part one was called "Alien", properly denoting the single alien creature in that movie, "Aliens" is literally crawling with the alien creatures. They are everywhere -- on the ceiling, along the walls, and in the shadows. Under Cameron's direction, the aliens are frighteningly real, physical, and in your face. They move with the speed of snakes and kills with the ferocity of tigers, but what really makes them a formidable foe is their cunning. These bastards are smart, has mastered organization, and there are a lot of them.Once the first mini-gun opens fire, "Aliens" shifts into action mode. At nearly two hours and 20 minutes, the movie lives up to the original film and, in my opinion, surpasses it. This is no cerebral experience, this is full-tilt action at its finest. Best of all, Cameron and his crew has the cast and the budget to pull off everything they wanted. Even more impressive is that this is only Cameron's second movie, the first being "The Terminator". (Cameron actually shot, edited, and released "The Terminator" and "Aliens" back-to-back. He was also the writer of 1986's "First Blood," the first "Rambo" movie. How's that for a banner year?) Besides making a star out of Sigourney Weaver as one of the first woman in cinematic history to kick ass and take names on an epic scale, the film features perhaps the finest and most memorable character to sci-fi fans everywhere. Bill Paxton ("Frailty") is Hudson, the loudmouth who utters some of the most memorable lines in all of sci-fi, including but not limited to his mantra of, "Game over, man! Game over!" after the alien army has all but destroyed his unit."Aliens" is good stuff. No, let me rephrase that. "Aliens" is great stuff.
Not as good as Alien, but well made and entertaining nonetheless. Great special effects. Is overly long though, and the acting by the secondary actors (Bill Paxton and co, essentially the Marine squad) was cheesy, wooden and overly gung-ho.


                
Now, I'm not a fan of calling movies overrated. And I'm not gonna do that, because I see why people love this film.I personally didn't enjoy it that much. All the characters besides Ripley aren't very likable, which made it hard for me to care if they got killed or not. I think Cameron knew that, and that's why he introduced Newt. Because everyone cares if a little girl is in danger. Well, for me it was just a cheap trick.And if I don't care that much about the characters, I can't give it an 8/10.But now we come to the positive things. The special effects, the designs and visuals are freaking amazing and set new standards for science fiction and action movies. The sets they built looked breathtaking then, and they still look breathtaking now. Computer effects age, real visuals don't. And the alien queen, wow, this must be one of the coolest monsters in movie history.I'm a huge fan of the original Alien, but I get that this has to be judged differently because it's a different kind of movie. Saying it sucks because it's not like Alien is stupid.I didn't think the movie as a whole is a masterpiece, because of the problems I had with it. But again, that's just the personal feelings I had. I watched it 3 times, first time as a teen and I hated it. Second time couple of years later, and I just didn't like it. And the third time, I thought it was good. Not great, good. But I get why people love it. I just don't.7/10


                
(I'm Dutch and do not speak/write English perfectly, beware!) Here and now, in 2011, I decided to watch both Alien movies. It was about time since I am 27 now and I love science fiction, but I never took the chance to watch these two movies. I'm not going to review them both of course, but Aliens is such a different movie than Alien is that I have to include my experience with the first movie.To summarize my night with the first movie: I LOVED it. Some viewers criticize Alien for having a slow pace but i think it is an essential feature of this movie being so effective. There are few scares, but the ones i got truly SCARED and HORRIFIED me. I also love the atmosphere, strengthened by the beautiful music and convincing effects, still holding up after 30 years. There is a loneliness in it all that just sucked me in, sitting alone myself in my room with the lights turned off.A few days later i started to watch 'Aliens', not knowing what to expect, besides a continuation of the story. Soon i discovered that Aliens is a truly different movie, and the difference in style didn't appeal to me first. Sure, Ripleys' situation is fascinating and the money-hungry CEO's made my empathize with Ripley even more but I really missed the buildup the first movie had. There, I felt isolated like the small crew in the ship, slowly being drawn to the alien horror. In Aliens, this feeling of isolation is largely absent as Ripley starts her second encounter being in contact with groups of people, being at safe distance from the threat.After an initial scare, the first half of the movie has a pretty slow pace compared to how the movie speeds up eventually. When the movie starts to pick up pace I loved most of the action scenes and after some early annoyance with Newt, I started to love the bond she developed with Ripley and I really wanted them to survive! So for me, the second half of the movie made up for the first half which I felt to be quite dull.But still, I feel the urge to write about what i consider Aliens' shortcomings because I had higher expectations of this movie. Maybe some of my points of critique arise because i am born in the eighties and raised with bombastic movies like Terminator (2), Robocop, Independence Day, and Starship Troopers. I guess I would have like this movie better if i would have seen it earlier, maybe then i wouldn't have felt the action movie deja vu feeling Aliens gave me.Deja vu, like the group of Marines. I've seen too many cool Marines on the big screen in my life. Sympathy for them did develop throughout the movie, but their 'badass' attitude made them far less human for me than the crew of the first movie. Talking about 'less human', I hated Burke from the start, it was just too obvious he was a lying weasel. I enjoyed him being killed, too bad the killing scene was too short in comparison with the disgust i felt for him! After 25 years, Despite my complaints, this is a pretty good movie with a fantastic finale. In retrospect it suffers from the existence of too many roller-coaster ride action movies which came out after 1986. And in this argument lies my appreciation of the first movie, it lacks explosions and bombast but that simplicity feels like a fresh breath of air in a landscape of action/horror movies trying to be bigger than the one before.


                
Most people have probably heard how the second one continues the story but takes a little bit different direction: the first one was a horror movie and the second one was more of an action flick. Well, you'd better believe that they go all out. The story picks up fifty-seven years after the original, and sure enough, there are more aliens. Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), however, is not to be deterred. If those drooling fiends are around, she's ready to take them on.I should say that the movie seems a little silly at times. Since this is an action flick, there are a number of army types, and they all have their macho lingo. Fortunately, "Aliens" doesn't pretend to be anything but an action flick. If anything, the little girl adds a sort of humanizing aspect to the kick-ass stuff. But this is definitely a guy movie, albeit one carried by a woman. If I may say so, Weaver becomes as much of a bad-ass here as she was in "Ghost Busters" (of course, this time she's not possessed).Anyway, this movie has something for everyone, and you're sure to like it. Really cool. Also starring Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton and Paul Reiser.I wonder whatever became of Carrie Henn.


                
I felt that this film was fascinating in I'ts suttle futuristic feel in the first 1/4 of the movie.As if director Cameron had an actual sense, or vision of life in the super mechanized,and highly automated future.The remainder of the film seems to lack that creepy "it's really going to be like that" flavor. But it was fun to watch. Peeves I guess would be there don't seem to be enough aliens, as young Newt seems to ominously warn. For those who have seen it, some funny goofs are......the visible wire when the face hugger attacks Ripley in med lab. The reappearance of goo on Newt after she is clear of it when Ripley lifts her from the cocoon...Hicks blasting away at the false-cieling when the aliens attack...with no damage to it. & so on.
Certain genre films manage to strike a resonating chord with their audiences, and achieve not only popular success but a lingering cult that glorifies the movie into neo-scriptural status. 'Blade Runner' is such a film, perhaps the shining example of a genre film that too many people think is better than it really is; but 'Aliens' is another excellent example of a film that people elevate out of proportion to how good it really is.To be fair, 'Aliens' is a strong film. It has interesting characters, an engaging set-up, and some of the better production design ever seen in a sci-fi film. It's also disturbingly pro-military, which is understandable given its Reagan-era roots, but comes off more than a little hawkish now. And it does achieve what it set out to do, and what most sequels never can; to be as good as or better than the original. Granted, Ridley Scott's 'Alien' was a different type of film, a suspense/horror movie, where this is an action film (and yes, I am aware of parallels to 'Mummy/Mummy Returns').Watching 'Aliens' now is a different experience than seeing it back then; you have the following two movies in your memory (whether you want them there or not), and it's funny to see Paul Reisler (Carter Burke) doing anything other than watered-down comedy (he's very good here, by the way). The only other really recognizable actor is Sigourney Weaver, whom they unsuccessfully tried to build a franchise around; genre dorks like me can pick out Michael Biehn, whose career essentially peaked with this film, and of course Bill Paxton is in the background crying and bitching.The film comes off as very eighties when viewed through modern eyes. Burke in particular seems to have gotten stuck in 1985 (though Ripley's civilian garb is also horribly dated). Most of the military production design still holds up, however; ironically it succeeds in that by not being too futuristic. The tanks, dropship, etc, all still look and feel pretty cool.So why is this film not the be-all end-all that so many proclaim it to be? It's a good film, sure; the build up is particularly tense and effective, and the rough camaraderie between the marines is still enjoyable (though more of them seem to come off as dicks than I remember). The slow approach to the settlers' camp and the way Cameron chooses to unveil the aliens <U+0096> remember, at that time we didn't all have little plastic dolls of them <U+0096> is also very inventive, and while this is an action film, Cameron injects a healthy dose of horror into it.My basic issues with the film (which my recent re-watching did nothing to dispel) really came down to two things: Newt, and Cameron's 'mother' issues. The entire last third of the film, from a plot standpoint, is wholly unnecessary, because of these two items. The characters battle and beat (or at least hold off) the aliens and are well on their way out when, inexplicably, the clever and nimble-fingered Newt falls down an air vent, and we get a long, pointless detour that not only sours this film but mostly poisons the next two and the very concept of the aliens altogether.Kids are hard to do in genre films. Spielberg did a decent job with Short Round in 'Temple of Doom' and Alex O'Connell in 'Mummy Returns' manages to work well. But most of the other times, including here, kids are just annoying precocious plot devices. Newt doesn't bring anything to this film other than a lot of screaming; she tells us nothing about the aliens we don't learn from other sources, she sheds no light on the colonists, and she isn't even particularly effective comic relief. The only purpose she serves is to introduce the main sub-theme in the movie, Cameron's mother complex. By awakening Ripley's maternal instincts, Newt's presence sets us up for the ridiculous end-duel between Ripley, in a wearable forklift, and the woefully overdone Queen alien, an unnecessary invention that looks silly and cheapens the horror value of the aliens forever.Viewed with hindsight now, one can see that 'Aliens' could also be called 'T2 version 0.95'. Many similar elements, and even similar shots, are used in both films (compare Vasquez's intro with Sarah Connor's; the misapprehension of the lead character, a non-combatant, upon their first encounter with an android; the role both Newt and John play in re-humanizing their mothers; and so on). There's nothing really wrong with this <U+0096> and Cameron would hardly be the first director to mine himself for ideas, and, frankly, you could do worse than steal from 'Aliens' for inspiration. But it's interesting to watch Cameron test several ideas out in this movie before fleshing them out in what is arguably his greatest work (come on, you didn't think I was referring to 'Titanic', did you?).'Aliens' remains an enjoyable and well-done film, if a bit dated, and I know I spent too much time here debunking myth and not enough praising the effective parts of the film, which are numerous. The longer-cut DVD adds nothing that you really missed in the first place (I could have lived without seeing Newt's parents) and imbues the early part of the film with pacing more appropriate for a novel (which probably explains why it was pared down). For sheer genre fun, the first two-thirds of this movie are hard to top, and it's not difficult to see why it has engendered such feverish devotion from genre fans. It's certainly worth a viewing if you haven't seen it recently. By and large the Alien franchise was pretty good ('Alien 3' being the extremely notable exception), and it never gets better than it does here. For most of the picture, anyway.


                
For all the rock 'em, sock 'em action that other reviewers heap love on James Cameron's Aliens over the original Ridley Scott version, I still prefer the haunting tension of the original Alien (1979). Aliens is simply really all non-stop action (extremely entertaining nonetheless!); that's what some prefer. The tension and the unknown in Alien gets you really scared.... And I prefer the original. (BTW, don't watch the further sequels, they are simply hollow Hollywood attempts to rake in money on the Alien series name.) Cameron's Aliens is still exciting and worth the roller coaster trip. (Bill Paxton is quite entertainingly over the top as a whining Marine. )Ridley Scott's Alien plays havoc with your mind. Still giving Aliens a strong 7; Alien gets a 9.


                
»Aliens« is a pretty solid sequel to the sci-fi nightmare that was Ridley Scott's »Alien«, but I can't help but feel that James Cameron's effort is overrated. True, »Aliens« rocks as a grade A hollywood actioner. There are some amazing set pieces. Come to think of it, the whole movie is one gigantic set piece. It's entertaining and suspensful as hell.And ... that's about all I can say about it. »Aliens« doesn't give me much to think about, although it has so much more plot than the original. This movie is the definition of a blockbuster: well made and engaging, but ultimatively empty and calculated. What escpecially bugs me is the new character Newt. This sweet little girls serves one purpose and one purpose only: Making Ellen Ripley into a mother. Throughout the whole movie Cameron tries to give Ripley a new family. That's interesting enough (altough it may rise some feministic concerns), but it's handled in a painfully heavy-handed way.Gone is the artful agitation of »Alien«, gone its originality and openness. It's clear that a lot of effort went into »Aliens«, but its emotional core is lacking. It's a worthwhile watch anyway, I'd be a fool to deny the raw power this movie has. It just doesn't feel like an »Alien« flick. Even less so than the much-maligned fourth installment by Jean-Pierre Jeunet.


                
Suspenseful and terrifying like the original, but in completely different ways. Where Ridley Scott's first film was loaded up with atmosphere, exploration and an overwhelming sense of terrified wonder at the habits of an unfamiliar life form, James Cameron's sequel is faced with the task of expanding upon a theme that's already been fairly thoroughly prodded. Dropping the intellectual angles and dramatic pauses in favor of unbridled, run-and-gun chaos, it still manages to feel akin to its predecessor via more than a monster suit and lead actress. While Aliens doesn't take as much time to appreciate the sights, they're still around, and they remain excellent examples of on-screen world building. The power of the aliens themselves seems very diminished - they're little more than waves of cannon fodder by the second act - but Cameron compensates with a bold determination to examine them as a versatile breed of fauna. Although its dalliances into action tripes can be distracting, and a few lines of dialog are eyeball-spinningly cheeseball, the film is still a success. How much of that is due to its young director's touch, rather than the power of the galaxy that had been established in the original, is open for debate.


                
Ripley (Sigorney Weaver) has been floating in space for decades. By a stroke of luck a salvage vessel locates her and she's revived into a changed world. The destruction of Nostromo haunts her career as she's demoted as a lowly dock worker, but then she hears, that the planet her crew previous team located the deadly beast has been colonized for terraforming. Soon after this she learns, that the communications are off, so she must go to a rescue mission with some gun-ho marines.After some pretty boring character introduction scenes the action gears hit in and the latter half of the story is edge seating action with very little resemblance on the gripping horror of the first story.The special effects are great and the aliens have been multiplying in the numbers, though it seems, that this time they aren't half as mean and lean killing machines than the sole monster was in the original film. Out of the new aliens the queen is very nicely designed and executed little monster, though the portrayal of aliens as an ant community kind of group feels a bit cheap shot.All in all, Aliens delivers in action what it lacks from the story and characters. Ripley is tougher and more clearly a hero than she was in the first film and the rest of the crew is more in the part of clichéd statistics to be killed off in some part of a film. James Cameron again shows, that he knows how to direct.
