Seven years after barely surviving events on board the Nostromo in Ridley Scott's classic sci-fi horror ALIEN, Sigourney Weaver reprised her role as Warrant Officer Ripley for one of the most compelling and critically-acclaimed sequels of all time.  Canadian director James Cameron had already struck gold with the Arnold Schwarzenegger starring vehicle THE TERMINATOR (1984), after his somewhat inauspicious feature film directorial debut with the long-forgotten, Dutch-backed PIRANHA II: THE SPAWNING 3 years earlier.  ALIENS would further cement Cameron's growing reputation as a first-rate director of high-tech, fast-paced, adrenaline-pumping action thrillers, from which there would normally be no let-up once they got going.When Ripley is rescued from drifting aimlessly through deep space, she is horrified to learn that not only has she been asleep for 57 years, but the planet on which she had encountered the original alien all that time ago has since been colonized.  At first no-one will heed her warnings or completely believe the story she gives at an official enquiry as to what happened to her and her fellow Nostromo crew members.  But then contact is lost with LV-426, and despite initially throwing Ripley "to the wolves" (as she herself puts in), The Company, through representative Carter J. Burke (Paul Reiser), suddenly finds itself in a position of having to ask Ripley for help, finally persuading her to return to the planet that still consumes her every nightmare, as an advisor to a motley group of very tough colonial marines expecting this to be just another run-of-the-mill "bug-hunt".  But how wrong that assumption turns out to be!I would argue that ALIENS far surpasses its celebrated predecessor in almost every aspect.  Obviously the sheer spectacle of what is basically a Vietnam war movie in space is particularly awe-inspiring - the impressive sets, the many excitingly-staged combat sequences, the aliens themselves (interestingly enough, although through fast cutting and appropriate camera placement it seems as though there are hundreds of aliens being blasted to kingdom come - or else picking off the gung-ho marines one by one - in reality no more than 6 aliens are ever seen in any one shot).  But the human drama element of this sequel is also greatly heightened, primarily by the introduction of "Newt" (wonderful little Carrie Henn, in her only film role), who turns out to be the sole survivor of recent events on LV-426, becoming a kind-of surrogate daughter to Ripley, which leads to several touching moments and gives the story a surprisingly effective emotional core in the midst of all the otherwise pre-eminent carnage.Amongst the talented supporting players are Cameron regulars Michael Biehn (THE TERMINATOR, THE ABYSS) and Bill Paxton (bit part in THE TERMINATOR, TRUE LIES, TITANIC), and Cameron's punchy dialogue includes such suitably macho wisecracks as - Hudson (Paxton): "Hey Vasquez, have you ever been mistaken for a man?"  Vasquez (a pumped-up Jenette Goldstein): "No, have you?"  Nominated for 7 Oscars, including Weaver as Best Actress (again this confirms the general class on display, as it is fairly rare for the Academy to recognize the acting qualities inherent in this type of predominantly action-driven movie), the film went on to win for Best Visual Effects and Best Sound Effects Editing.  Further, almost inevitable sequels followed in 1992 and 1997, but I prefer to think of the terrifying perils of Ellen Ripley as ending on this high note.


                
Stirring and superior sequel with plenty of thrills , intrigue , suspense , disgusting special effects and lots of blood and gore . The planet from Alien I (1979) has been colonized, but contact is lost . This sequel deals with an invincible squad of G.I.Joes (Michael Biehn , Bill Paxton , Al Matthews , Mark Rolston , Jenette Goldstein and several others) with breathtaking firepower commanded by a Lt. (William Hope) , being accompanied by Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) , a chief (Paul Reiser) of 'The Company' and again an android (Lance Henriksen) ; all of them go to the dangerous planet Alien . The rescue team has to confront an incredible power in a titanic fight .Nail-biting outing contains tension from start to finish , gory scenes aplenty , some strong scares , slime , emotion , entertainment and nice acting . This follow-up to Alien is also visually astounding , being masterfully realized by James Cameron with a good cast as Paul Reiser , Jenette Goldstein , Lance Henriksen , Michael Biehn , among others . All of the cast who were to play the Marines with the exception of Michael Biehn, who replaced James Remar one week into filming were trained by the S.A.S. , Special Air Service, Britain's elite special operations unit for two weeks before filming . Here Sigourney Weaver/Ripley stands out as one of the best action women of the cinema history . Sigourney Weaver's Best Actress Academy Award nomination for this movie was the first ever for an actress in an action role in an action movie . Moving and thrilling story by Walter Hill , David Giler and the same Cameron ; based on "Alien" characters created by Ronald Shusett and Dan O'Bannon . This exciting as well as heart-pounding movie contains shocks , stomach-churning violence , being packed with frenetic action , thrills and results to be pretty entertaining . It is a very good cinematic combination of Sci-Fi , monster movie and terror . This is a brutal , considerable violent and overwhelming sci-fi thriller that scales new heights of savagery even by the standards of the 70s , 80s , 90s and even 2000s . The result is a throughly violent but undeniably impressive action movie with an acceptable cast giving sweatily good value to their abrasive characters . Magnificently designed creatures , originally created by the artist HR Giger . Top-notch special effects by SFX designer Alec Gillis and Tom Woodruff Jr . Although , only six alien suits were used, and even then they were mostly just a handful of latex appliances on black leotards , the appearance of hundreds of aliens is simply clever editing and planning, and lighting plus slime helped make the "suits" more solid. The Animatronics were controlled by a motion-control rig which could save her rapid movements . The ending part is particularly exciting with our protagonist battling the malicious as well as brutal alien mother and with impressive scenes that took various months to film . The picture packs an enjoyable music score by maestro James Horner , full of fury and frightening sounds , though he cannibalized previous scores he had done, such as elements from his Star Trek II -wrath of Khan (1982) and Star Trek III (1984) scores . Furthermore , a colorful and adequate cinematography by Adrian Biddle . The motion picture lavishly produced by Gordon Carroll , David Giler , Walter Hill and Gale Anne Hurd was perfectly directed by the great James Cameron . There was seven years between the release of Alien (1979) and Aliens (1986), six between Aliens and Alien 3 (1992), and five between Alien³ and Alien resurrection (1997). The original and the best was ¨Alien¨ by Ridley Scott , it was starred by Sigourney Weaver as a great action woman similarly to Sanaa Lathan ; it is followed by this ¨Aliens¨, considered to be its better sequel . All of them starred by the great Sigourney Weaver who performed one of the best female leads created in years followed by Sanaa Lathan . Furthermore, ¨Alien vs. Predator¨ (2004) that was first film in the "Alien" franchise to not feature Sigourney Weaver, who has said in interviews the idea of the crossover "sounded awful¨ and ¨Aliens vs. Predator ¨ (2004) by Paul W.S. Anderson with Sanaa Lathan , Raoul Bova , Ewen Bremner , Tommy Flanagan , Joseph Rye . Followed by ¨AVPR: Aliens vs Predator - Réquiem¨ (2007) by Colin Strause and Greg Strause with Steven Pasquale , Reiko Aylesworth , John Ortiz , Johnny Lewis , Kristen Hager , Ariel Gade , Sam Trammell , Gina Holden , Ty Olsson and Robert Joy .


                
I've been a fan of this movie for over 20 years now. It's hard to believe the years have passed so quickly since it made the cover of Time magazine! 'Aliens' owes everything to 1) a wonder of a script that gives even those in small roles, who may only have a handful of lines, a pretty defined character. Structurally it's very intelligent, and every single new character in the large cast is memorable. 2) Syd Meads impressive gadgets 3) Sigourney Weaver! who knows enough to be fierce AND scared, and is given sequences where she can actually save some of this crew. Which is not to say that other elements aren't also impressive (score, camera work, fx, editing and... it goes without saying, direction). You never doubt this world exists for a moment. It's so convincing and alive. All that, while being true to the first movie, while freeing itself up in amazing ways. Every choice is smart and produces a better movie than the usual cop-outs one finds in a sequel. All this and the only role Bill Paxton has ever been good in.In 1986 this movie delivered shock after shock in scenes that have since become boilerplate. It's a catalog of continually hopeless scenarios dropping while Ripley soldiers on: Your sole means of getting off a planet has just crashed in front of you? Keep a tough disposition, be a hard-ass and work it through. She wipes the floor with the Marine troop she's supposed to be depending on. The movie has more than rewarded your interest before the very cool climactic brawl plays out. I see about three movies a decade that don't blow their final act. Weaver is so awesome as Ripley that it's hard to believe that once she owned the franchise, she made such dependably rotten decisions. Cameron drunk on kudos went on to write the simpering, facile script for Titanic, which means his writing and evaluative skills are not as honed as Aliens would suggest. If you haven't seen this yet, what are you waiting for?(I always found it amusing that planets and spaceships helpfully count down their own destruction)
A worthy successor to the first Alien movie! Sigourney Weaver is back as Ripley delivering am excellent performance and development for her character. Other characters are kipled of willy-nilly but some did survive longer and one survived the whole encounter. James Cameron captures the correct ambiance for a horror flick. The Aliens looked even better as well.
Available on Blu-ray Disc (Region B)USA 1986 English (Colour); Science Fiction/Horror/Action (Twentieth Century Fox/Brandywine); 154 minutes (18 certificate)Crew includes: James Cameron (Director/Screenwriter, from Characters created by Dan O'Bannon, Ronald Shusett); Gale Anne Hurd (Producer); Gordon Carroll, David Giler, Walter Hill (Executive Producers); Adrian Biddle (Cinematographer); Peter Lamont (Production Designer); Ray Lovejoy (Editor); James Horner (Composer)Cast includes: Sigourney Weaver (Ellen Ripley), Carrie Henn (Newt), Michael Biehn (Corporal Dwayne Hicks), Paul Reiser (Carter Burke), Lance Henriksen (Bishop), Bill Paxton (Private Hudson), William Hope (Lieutenant Gorman), Jenette Goldstein (Private Vasquez), Al Matthews (Sergeant Apone), Mark Rolston (Private Drake), Ricco Ross (Private Frost)Academy Awards (2): Visual Effects (Stan Winston et al), Sound Effects Editing; Academy Award nominations (5): Actress (Weaver), Art Direction-Set Decoration, Film Editing, Original Score, Sound; BAFTA Award: Visual Effects (Winston et al); BAFTA nominations (3): Production Design, Makeup, Sound; Golden Globe nomination: Actress - Drama (Weaver)"This time it's war."The warrant officer who survived the carnage of years earlier (Weaver) is persuaded to return to the planet that spawned the creature, when contact is lost with colonists, as an advisor to a team of Colonial Marines equipped to wipe out any alien threat to human life.Arguably surpassing its illustrious predecessor in crucial areas, ALIENS confirmed Cameron's growing reputation as a crack architect of high-tech, fast-paced, adrenaline-pumping action thrillers, from which there would be no respite once they got going.Basically a Vietnam War movie in space, with awe-inspiring sets and exhilarating combat sequences, plus a greatly enhanced emotional core, as a young girl (Henn) becomes Weaver's surrogate daughter.Blu-ray Extras: Original Version (137 minutes), Commentary, Documentaries, Featurette, Deleted/Extended Scenes, Interviews, Music-only Tracks, Treatment, Storyboards, Stills Galleries, Outtakes, Behind-the-Scenes Footage, Multi-Angle Sequence, Video Graphics, Main Title Designs, 3D Attraction Script, Production Notes, Parody, Trailers, TV Spot. ***** (10/10)


                
Fantastic sequel! This was even better than the first movie. The action scenes were plentiful and non-stop once they started. There were so many more aliens, with explosions and gun fire all over the place. Parts of the story were very similar - the political agenda and the last minute alien space float - but the overall plot was new and more interesting. It's hard to expand on characters when there are so many in one movie, but we did get to see a wider view of Ripley's backstory and an expansion of her personality. You can tell that she grew as a character and a fighter. I love that the aliens aren't CGI. You can't beat having something real in the shot for the actors to interact with. It is more visceral and makes the performance believable. Plus I think that is part of why these movies hold up. If the aliens had been computer animated they would have been held back by the technology of the era. With the puppets you get a realism that makes a huge difference. Aliens did not disappoint.
Say what you will about James Cameron's attempts at more "serious" film-making ("Titanic"? Ha!), the man does know how to put together an action movie. He takes a completely different approach to this second film in the "Alien" series than Ridley Scott did to the first -- whereas Scott's film was slow, creepy and scarier for what you didn't see than for what you did, Cameron's is nearly non-stop hard-core action. It works though, and for all the difference in their styles, the two films cohere very well together.In this sequel, the focus moves away from the science/research angle of the first and instead focuses on a group of marines sent to a ghost town of a space station to investigate the disappearance of the colonists. Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is along for the ride again, and Cameron uses her fear of what they could potentially be walking into effectively. Whereas in the first one, we were scared because we shared the scientists' cluelessness about what was going on and only learned things as they learned them, in this one we're scared in the same way Ripley is, precisely because we know what's going on and how terrifying it is. And Cameron ups the ante here -- instead of one single alien as a nemesis, this group of marines has to deal with hundreds of them.I'm not really a fan of the subplot involving Newt, the little girl the marines find and who forms an attachment to Ripley. But the story does give Ripley's character a lot of motivation and makes her stand off with the aliens much more personal.I've seen this film a few times, so you'd think it wouldn't hold any suspense for me now, but I just watched it again over the weekend and damned if I wasn't on the edge of my seat.Grade: A


                
Wow! James Cameron sure knows how to make a sequel!  Aliens is a much better film than it's predecessor.Aliens is a well paced & action packed film, where as Alien was far too slow.  The effects are good, the aliens movement smooth & fluid.Sigourney Weaver is great as Ripley, Paul Reiser performance as the slimy Burke makes you want to hate him & Cameron favourite Michael Biehn is also solid as Cpl Hicks.Carrie Henn as "Newt" put in a magnificent effort for someone so young, great child actors are very hard to find.Easily the best of the Alien series & one of the best sequels ever.


                
I remember having a conversation with a work colleague in 1983 on horror films ( In those days video nasties like I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE and NIGHT OF THE DEMON were all the rage ) and he mentioned that he thought ALIEN was a great film . " Hmm " I replied " I didn`t think it was that good Benny . It would have been better if there was more people getting killed by lots of aliens and a lot more action " It could be that James Cameron over heard my conversation and decided he was going to make a sequel solely to please me , but it`s more logical to assume that he recognised the obvious faults of the pretentious arthouse original and went for a no holds action blockbusterI really loved the action setpieces of ALIENS , the flames , the explosions , the gunfire , the high body count and the nerve jangling tension . Cameron does a great job and unlike his later films never goes overboard on the production values and a special mention should go to realistic little things like costume design . All too often directors shoot themselves in the foot by making the future look futuristic and fail because of it , check out UFO , THE GREEN SLIME and SPECE 1999  for a few examples , but here the costumes look very functional as opposed to futuristic . And Cameron has written a very good - though possibly overlong - script . Notice that it has - Unlike his script for RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART TWO - a slightly left of centre viewpoint with the marines being jingoistic American stereotypes and the bad guy being a corperate capitilist ? This no accident on the part of the screenwriter I`m sureSo with a few rare exceptions like MAD MAX 2 this is a film that outdoes the original . I know that some critics prefer Ridley Scott`s version and they`re entitled to their veiwpoint but Cameron proved the doom mongers ( And there was a lot of them in 1985 )  wrong when they announced that ALIENS wouldn`t come close to equalling never mind surpassing the original .I`ve no idea what Benny thought of ALIENS  though


                
Ridley Scott's superb Alien opens in a completely foreign atmosphere, making us want to be there, attracting us mysteriously. The camera moves around slowly and quietly, exploring this place, and it makes us want to be there. This is how he elusively draws us in and begins building suspense right under our noses. James Cameron's Aliens is too impatient. There is no build-up of suspense, there are constant close-ups, everybody's made up to look attractive, and the exposition is only long because it seems to think that extension equals suspense, or that there's some quota to fill and then you can play around with your big guns and gore all you want. Cameron presents us with an action film, big fun, special effects, blow this up, blow that up, but there is an hour and 45 minutes of waiting around for it, and less than an hour of action and violence. There is a good 20 minutes of nonstop action that is actually paced quite well and feels very intense, but it's aggravating to be kept from it for so long just so the film can appear as patient and effective as the original.The original Alien knew the magic of claustrophobia and the effect it can have. Cameron's nature is to do everything he can to outdo. So, he makes a bigger movie, with a bigger cast, and a bigger spaceship and bigger, louder scenes of violence, when that is not what you need to outdo the first Alien. There's nothing wrong with making the sequel more of an action film than a suspense film, but instead, he donned the film with the appearance of being patiently suspenseful and, since the film is about a big bunch of marines going to blow everything up and the film makes no attempt to be subtle, all we're doing is sitting and waiting, whereas in Ridley Scott's original, we were sitting bruising our dates' forearms.One thing I must add though, is that Jennette Goldstein should've become something bigger than she was. She is a fantastic actress, and extremely hot at that. She's the biggest highlight next to Bill Paxton here in Aliens, as she is to Paxton in Cameron's once wife Bigelow's Near Dark. She should've become a star.


                
Aliens is one of the greatest sci-fi action films ever made. If the first film was horror, this one was more like an adventure. It was a lot less darker than Alien. Unlike Alien, there were quite a few likable characters. Especially Jennette Goldstein as the tough dikey soldier. Even Lance Henriksen as the robot was a lot more amicable compared to Ian Holm in the first part.I think the Alien series could be a bit right wing. In the first part, you had Ripley not letting in the compromised explorer team that has brought back an alien with them. In the second part, the soldiers are not allowed to use guns while exploring the space station even though there are indications that alien creatures are coming towards them. All this because the mother corporation wants some of these aliens alive.This is more of an out and out action film than the first one which relied on tense build ups. It could be my favorite of the series.


                
Whereas the first, and original, "Alien" movie from 1979 was more of a thriller / horror Sci-Fi movie in space, then this 1986 continuation steps it up a notch and turns it into a fast paced action movie. I could imagine that some fans of the 1979 movie would not particularly enjoy this change of genre, but personally I did enjoy it quite a lot. In fact, I think that "Aliens" is the best movie of the entire "Alien" franchise so far.What makes "Aliens" special to me is a myriad of things. First and foremost it is the abundance of alien creatures that are present in this movie. Sure, the cat-and-mouse chase from the 1979 movie with a single alien was nice. But having a whole hive of aliens running around in the 1986 was just much more menacing. And the slight evolution and changes made to the alien creatures in this 1986 movie compared to the first movie was also a welcomed detail. Secondly, director James Cameron managed to put a very interesting story to the screen, and he directed the movie quite nicely. Thirdly, the characters in the movie were all very well-detailed and fleshed out to help tell the story of "Aliens". And finally, the ensemble of cast, which were just fabulous."Aliens" is a definite MUST watch if you enjoy Sci-Fi, and especially if you enjoy the "Alien" franchise and universe.The characters portrayed in "Aliens" were all quite well-detailed, as I mentioned above. And they all did add a lot of flavor to the story, despite not giving us much background story to their persons. But their backgrounds were not important here, as they are soldiers and their personalities more than spoke for themselves. The gallery of characters in "Aliens" was really good, and a big thumbs up to the team of writers who came up with these characters.Equally impressive was the ensemble of cast hired to portray these fleshed out characters. And this feat is really one of the key ingredients to "Aliens" being such an enjoyable movie. Sigourney Weaver is, of course, the embodiment of the franchise, and she had much help from talents performers such as Carrie Henn, Michael Biehn, Paul Reiser, Lance Henriksen and Bill Paxton.The special effects in "Aliens" were great, with lots of nice details and personal touches to the individual marines. And the environment was realistic and believable.As I mentioned earlier, "Aliens" is the best of all the movies in the franchise. And if you have a chance to watch the special edition or director's cut edition, by all means do so, because it has so much extra contents that just adds a whole new layer of enjoyment to the movie experience.


                
Claustrophobic and dark and also action-pumped, this sequel manages to beautifully stand on its own but also compliment on the first movie. It's only natural that in order to evolve you have to reinvent but not miss out on the mystique, the soul of the movie, which is preserved perfectly in this one, as it is in all 4 Alien movies. Actually the Alien series viewed as a whole is like a work of art on its own, and all 4 compliment on each other, although being also significant different and similar, none of them repeating itself. Also you don't have to be too familiar with the previous movie in order to understand what's going on in each of them. Whoever had this fact in sight really did a great job. I believe maybe this one remains my favorite, beside Bill Paxton being cast in it, for benefiting of being made in the 80's, regarding complimenting a great idea/ story with perfect special effects, in this case the alien which couldn't look more real. I think regarding sci-fi this was the most interesting decade, because it benefited of altogether richer story/special effects ratio than recent films where pyrotechnics and special effects seem to be the only interest of producers. It was the melting-point of two movie making schools which created quite some timeless classics.


                
Ridley Scott's Alien quickly worked its way into my all-time Top 10 and has claimed a permanent place there ever since. Aliens, however, didn't impress me that much when I first saw it in a movie theatre in 1986. Apart from a couple of genuinely gruesome moments (like when the marines discover the cocooned colonists or when Ripley and Newt stumble upon the alien queen's egg chamber), I felt Aliens took a wrong turn when it replaced the slow grinding horror and terrifying uncertainty of Alien with 'bigger and more' all-out action. Even the effects seemed cheaper although seven years had passed since the production of the first film. I was entertained, but not overly impressed.I still vacillate between loving and dismissing Aliens on a daily basis. Sometimes I feel it is nearly as good as the first one, although in a very different genre. Sometimes I find it too much of an '80s action movie' (I never liked those) with all the dumb clichés of the era being too evident. The extended cut, however, is definitely better. It adds more depth to the characters and provides a more epic experience overall.Maybe you just have to lower your expectations after Alien, and watch Aliens for what it is: one of the best SF/horror action flicks from the 1980s.
¨We'd better get back, 'cause it'll be dark soon, and they mostly come at night¨Many people consider Aliens to be better or at least at the same level as its predecessor, Alien, but I found it an inferior film in many ways. In my opinion Alien is a perfect film, while Aliens despite being very entertaining is not nearly as scary and has its flaws. This sequel was directed by James Cameron and his trademarks are all over this film. Ridley Scott had managed to direct a small psychological science fiction horror flick, while Cameron made a much larger film, with many aliens, more characters, and a lot more action. This is more of a blockbuster movie than anything else. I've always been a fan of much quieter films that focus on psychological scares than big budget action movies so that may be one of the reasons why I liked Alien much more than Aliens. There is no doubt about Cameron's ability to direct these big budget movies and he always delivers spectacular visual effects, but story wise his films are sometimes lacking in quality. The characters are many times one dimensional and that is exactly the case in Aliens. The only character I really liked in this film and that has depth is Sigourney Weaver's Ripley. Unlike in Alien where the main character seemed to be the alien despite not showing up much on screen; in Aliens we have plenty of screen time for the aliens, but I never felt like they were a main character. It's as if so much overexposure to them made me care less about the aliens and more about Ripley. So in conclusion Alien was the creature's movie, while Aliens is Weaver's film. She has a very strong role and her presence is what has made this film so successful. She carries the film and in a way makes us forget about the rest of the one dimensional characters. The story continues right where the original left off with Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) in the Nostromo shuttle in hypersleep along with her cat. She is awaken by a salvage team that has found her vessel drifting through space. Burke (Paul Reiser), who works for the same company that the original crew members worked for, informs Ripley that she has been asleep for 57 years. The company briefs Ripley as to what happened with the ship and the rest of the members, and don't believe her story. They say that if her story were true then the colony of over 60 families that has been living on the planet where she claims to have seen the derailed ship would have encountered the aliens by now. The colony has been there for over twenty years without experiencing difficulties, and Ripley is discharged as a space pilot. Some time later, when the company loses contact with the colony, Burke asks Ripley to come along with them as a consultant. The company sends a military team to find out what has happened to the colonists and Ripley is offered to come along with them reinstating her if she does so. This is just an excuse for Cameron to get the crew in the same planet as the aliens and have much more action. Ripley decides to travel with the team which consists of Lt. Gorman (William Hope), the android Bishop (Lance Henriksen), Cpl. Hicks (Michael Biehn), Pvt. Vasquez (Jenette Goldstein), Pvt. Hudson (Bill Paxton), Cpl. Ferro (Colette Hiller), among many other soldiers who are heavily armed and qualified. Once they reach the planet they find no sign of any colonists, except for a ten year old girl named Newt (Carrie Henn) who has managed to survive and tells them that monsters have killed the rest, and that they will come for them as well.This film marked a breakthrough in action films, but isn't really as scary as the original movie. The suspense and psychological horror is replaced with action packed shootouts and explosions. There are many more characters and a lot more aliens so there are a lot of things happening. This is what makes Aliens more entertaining for some people. Cameron had recently come from directing The Terminator so he was already making a name for himself and was able to work with a good budget. He is among the best when it comes to visuals and special effects and many of the visuals in this movie still look great today. Aliens won two Oscars for this reason. I'm not a huge fan of Cameron's work, although I have to admit Terminator 2 is one of the best action movies ever and definitely my favorite James Cameron film. The screenplay was also written by Cameron along with the help of screenwriters David Giler and Walter Hill, and I had small issues with it, although the spectacular action sequences saved it. This is Sigourney Weaver's film and she truly broke out as an A-list actress with this movie. She shines as a true female action hero who's strong and emotional at the same time. Aliens is a good film, just not as perfect as Alien.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com


                
One of the problems of these is that each director, albeit to varying degrees, were selfish... not only adding their respective styles and touches to their separate efforts, each also tried to make theirs the definite piece(and little was left for the next director to work with). I won't claim that Cameron wasn't, as well... nor for a second deny that he by far had the best starting place(you'll know what I mean if you've watched the first, and perhaps also this... and if you haven't, you shouldn't find out from any other source)... but darn it if he doesn't live up to it and deliver the goods(not everyone manages to, no matter how solid the hand they're dealt is). Where the first has adequate atmosphere, this has it in spades. It had maybe three or four jump scares, this is continually exciting(this actually affected me far more often, and typically more lasting). This also has humor. It looks magnificent, technically and visually speaking. I'm afraid I just cannot claim that I see how Alien measures up to this. Effects are superior(how much better could they really have gotten in seven years? Besides, if you can't get something to look convincing on the screen, why are you putting it up there?). Characters are interesting and strong. The action is awesome, some of the best for the genres(I'm not kiddin'). Direction is effective all the way, and James just gets something much more satisfying, entertaining and engaging out of the title creature. This takes the next logical step in the franchise, and does so almost flawlessly. The plot is marvelous. Pacing is excellent, this is never boring(neither version). Acting is about spot-on(and frankly much more involving and involved than that of its predecessor, with Weaver, Henriksen(nailing his performance unbelievably well), Biehn(by far one of my favorite male actors, and when James Cameron directs him, it gets kicked up a notch of considerable size) and Henn(9 years old, and so talented) being just the top picks in a film which seems devoid of poor performances. Paxton provides perfect comic relief, without being goofy or lame. The sci-fi aspects of the film are also amazing(not to ignore what Alien did have, which should also be noted), and everything about the Marines is great, cool and obviously very thought through. The Special Edition holds about 17 minutes more material, and it's invariably worth the extra time. That cut also has a commentary track, and it is rather good... Bill and Michael are so fun to listen to, and their camaraderie comes off so genuine(though they do also all partake in the, one would presume, mandatory love-fest), Gale, Stan Winston and James have quite a bit to say... even Carrie, if she doesn't throw her two cents in as much, is a pleasant inclusion. All in all, the best of the series, and definitely the most intense(and perhaps scary) of them. I recommend it to fans of Cameron and/or of the Alien series. 8/10


                
Unlike the first film, which is mainly a horror/suspense film, ALIENS is a balls out action movie. I think I actually enjoy this movie slightly more than the original. The character of Ripely is more flushed out and she goes full on badass in this movie. I also liked the supporting characters in this movie more so than the first. Likely because the adrenaline levels are turned up and the characters can be more colorful (or colourful in Canadian!). This is a review of the theatrical version, as I have yet to see the directors cut. Overall, this is one of the best action movies ever made. Recommended for those that enjoy aliens, aliens killing people, people killing aliens, aliens laying eggs, creepy children, underhanded corporate douches, underhanded corporate douches getting their comeuppance, Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Forklifts, badass marines dudes, badass marine ladies, android parlour tricks... 8/10...but that's just like, my opinion, man# Of Times Watched: Twice
Aliens is the sequel to Alien you can already tell. This movie seems more of a Sci-fi rather that Horror.The movie starts out with a crew finds Ripley's small ship from the first movie as it crash-lands. When Ripley wakes, the crew tells her that it is now 2094 since she was asleep for 57 more years. They also tell Ripley that the aliens from Xennomorph (the mysterious planet) are being colonized and that they will need lots of firepower for all the aliens.Ripley joins the crew which is a military team goes to Xennomorph to hunt the aliens. Ripley will only join them if they are going to kill the aliens and not to make the same mistake in 2037. The team needs to be careful not to let other teammates get Facehuggers connected to them so more aliens would not come.As the team battle their way though the aliens, it's just down to Ripley and a young girl. The two find the Alien Queen who is making for Facehuggers. All hope seems lost until Ripley gets into a exoskeleton suit which is later seen in Avatar.As Ripley says "Get away from her you b***h!" she battles the Alien Queen as the two escape the alien effected base and sleep for more numbers of years.I give Aliens a 9 out of 10 since this movie is more Sci-Fi that Horror.


                
It's certainly hard to talk about sci-fi movies and not bring up Aliens. James Cameron's sequel to the 1979 horror classic Alien is not only superior to its predecessor but it's among the greatest sci-fi movies to have ever been released.Aliens picks up where Alien left off, only it's been over forty years, and Ripley's been in cryo-sleep the whole time. After a not-so-friendly meeting about what happened in Alien, Ripley is revoked of her license. Then she finds out that the inhabitants of a colony that landed on LV-426; the alien planet have gone missing. Ripley, by her own will, chooses to go with a group of marines to hunt down the disturbance. As you might expect, things get pretty sticky and tight in Aliens as there's more than one, a lot more.James Cameron puts an action emphasis on Aliens unlike Ridley Scott's horror direction for Alien. And it's this that Aliens does so well, being a great action movie along with some thrilling moments. Not only does this change in direction make Aliens a more exciting film but also a better film. It's not just that the action in Aliens itself is great, but also that Cameron went for an original approach for the action attitude rather than make another horror-focused movie.There's also some great actors to find in Aliens. Sigourney Weaver of course returns as Ripley and she's much more serious than her character in Alien, so yeah, she's pretty bad-a** now. You've also got Micheal Beihn-who played Kyle from the Terminator as Corperal Hicks, and Beihn once again does a great acting job. Then there's everyone's favorite marine from Aliens, Bill Paxton as Hudson. You of course have to love Paxton for giving Hudson some of the best one-liners like "Oh that's great, that's just f**,king great, now what the f**k are we supposed to do? We're in some real tight s**t now man!" Once again, I have to talk about the action itself in Aliens, as it's so impressive and fun to talk about. I could mention so many awesome scenes from Aliens but the one that I love the most are the sequences with the Alien Queen. I must also give kudos to Cameron for the scenes of the Alien Queen against Ripley in the loader, which just flat-out rocks! The magnitude of Aliens was and still is excellent and huge.If you ever find yourself in need of a perfect Saturday-night sci-fi movie, Aliens will work ever time. It's just one of those movies that you don't get tired of watching, ever. Thank you James Cameron, for making some of the greatest movies of the 80's and 90's, Aliens was a true accomplishment!


                
Great SCI- Fi action / horror film. The movie has a mixer of action with the Aliens just attempting to take over the world, one town at least.


                
As "Prometheus(2012)" the prequel to the science fiction masterpiece "Alien(1979)" hits theater's I watched Aliens(1986) again and felt the same fear and the atmosphere of "Alien" and I promise you it still is frightening and original after it's years of time.This contains the high tech effects ahead of time if I say in my own opinion. And still Rocks big time.I think the alien saga is going to be a masterpiece with "Prometheus(2012)".No comment on direction by James Cameron as usually he creates an epic atmosphere on the planet LV -221, stunning war scenes and fearsome jaw dropping acting.Overall rating - A legend in sci-fi cinema. For the time it was made it is ahead of many modern films as well.
4/5


                
"Aliens" (1986) is a Sci-Fi action adventure about Ellen Ripley, played by Sigourney Weaver, as she goes another round with sinister extraterrestrials. After being saved from a 57-year hyper sleep by a space salvage team, Ripley is enlisted to help a team of highly trained colonial marines search a space colony that has gone dark. This film was extremely creative for its time. I remember effectively being freaked out when I first watched this film as a child because it was a very wide departure from films like "E.T." Watching it again now, I am awestruck at some of things they were able to accomplish with a realistic feel.The production value of this film appears surprisingly beyond its years. When I initially heard the sound design within this film it felt very real, but revisiting it now, some sound effects would serve better if they were updated to match the current technology. However, the film is still successful with the audio it currently uses. The story is strong and the visuals are creepily immaculate. Overall, I really enjoy this film and foresee myself revisiting the entire series. I would highly recommend this film to anyone that likes action adventures with a strong female heroine and doesn't conform to the norm.


                
At the end of Alien Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) was found floating in a pod. Upon her rescue by Weyland Yutani(the corporation that screwed her and her fellow crew members in Alien) she is told that there is already a terraforming colony on LV214(the space jockey planet) but contact has been lost for some time. She involuntarily agrees to join the team to go have a look. What follows is a fight to death between a bunch of marines and the evil Xenomorphs. Aliens is different in style and tone to Alien and that's a great thing. One of the few sequels that work so well Aliens shows the importance of a visionary director of the caliber of Jim Cameron.


                
This film should have been terrible. Just imagine the pitch:Okay, the first film had a terrifying xenomorph in it. This time we're going to have 100 terrifying xenomorphs! The first film had a civilian crew and no real weapons. Well, this time they're a bunch of roided up and tooled up Marines! And the showdown at the end of the film? Well, it won't be Ripley vs a xenomorph, it'll be Ripley vs a giant xenomorph Queen!By all rights this should have been an overambitious by the numbers sequel that ripped the soul out of a promising series. Instead we got an adrenaline fueled masterpiece that was almost as good as the first film; while simultaneously bringing something new to the series.
When Aliens hit theaters in 1986, it's predecessor, Ridley Scott's Alien, was already a science-fiction classic, and it's director, James Cameron, was a relative unknown in Hollywood. Coming on the heels of his surprise hit, The Terminator, Cameron blew the doors off what anyone was expecting to see in a sequel to Alien. Aliens was a huge, ambitious sci-fi action spectacular that traded quiet horror for slam bang pyrotechnics. It was a rousing success in 1986, but looking back at it today reveals some cracks. As per usual for a James Cameron film, Aliens is a rock solid story with some totally badass moments, but unlike Cameron's later work, it never quite captures the exquisite craftsmanship and event movie feel of The Abyss through Avatar.57 years after the destruction of the Nostromo, Ellen Ripley is discovered by a deep salvage team and recruited to join a team of Colonial Marines on a mission to a colonized moon that has been overrun by a horde of xenomorphs. It's a genius story premise by Cameron, taking the seeds planted in Alien, and growing them, naturally, into something bigger and better. This is what sequels always strive for, and rarely achieve. Aliens is a completely different kind of film from Alien, but it extends organically from it. It's also better than Alien. More exciting, more fun, and with a more potent emotional core.Sigourney Weaver is far and away the standout of the cast, which is otherwise comprised of the old Cameron standbys, hard-core chicks (Janette Goldstein as Vasquez), military grunts (Michael Biehn, Bill Paxton), and greedy corporate men (Paul Reiser). Weaver is fantastic as a woman traumatized by the events of Alien, who finds purpose in the protection of a stranded young girl named Newt (Carrie Henn). Her Ripley is one hell of a character. Fearful yet warm, determined but motherly, and in the end, a complete badass. Her Oscar nomination was unquestionably deserved.For a film famous for its action, with the greatest action director of all time at the helm and a story perfectly designed for rip-roaring thrills, it's almost a disappointment that Aliens is merely very good when it comes to the action set-pieces. The big alien ambush at the center of the movie is exciting, the facehugger attack is tense, and the marines' last stand against the xenomorph warriors is a great example of controlled mayhem. These scenes, however, don't have quite the polish I expect from Cameron action. It isn't until the last thirty minutes or so of the film, when Ripley begins her battle with the Alien Queen, that Aliens' action takes off. That final chunk of sustained action is the first taste the world got of just how special a director James Cameron could be. When Ripley steps out of the elevator, a giant gun in hand, the movie surges into overdrive. The Alien Queen is a brilliant concept in and of herself, and Cameron's direction of the entire sequence is superb. He saves his best for last, and introduces himself as a force to be reckoned with in Hollywood.It may sound blasphemous to some, but I think Aliens is crying out for a George Lucas-style special edition. Don't get me wrong, the alien effects by Stan Winston are great. The warrior xenomorphs are frighteningly designed and mostly free in their movements. The Alien Queen is one of the great large scale puppets in film history, an iconic creature. The effects work. But they aren't perfect. There is a crudeness to many of the effects. The miniatures sometimes look like toys, the xenomorphs sometimes move stiffly, and there are often visible wires and other mechanisms. It hampers what Cameron can do with the action. I think a conservative use of CGI would enhance the film, and liberate it from the constraints of the era and the film's small budget. Aliens was so ambitious, it deserved a bigger budget and more polished effects.The movie, as is, still rocks. The story is simply a stroke of genius, and the action is bolstered by a powerhouse performance by Sigourney Weaver. Aliens represents the transitional period of James Cameron's career, from enterprising low-budget fare to monumental event movies. There are moments of greatness in Aliens, even if the general unvarnished quality sticks like a pebble in its shoe. The structure of the film and its "in-your-face" attitude carry the day, but even so, I find myself imagining how breathtaking the movie might have been if Cameron made it with the resources available to him in the 1990s or 2000s. Despite my few nagging hangups with Aliens, the movie deserves its status as an action classic. Watching it with modern eyes, I can't call it a masterpiece, but I can call it a damn good time at the movies. Aliens is not a state-of-the-art thrill ride, but even a bumpy, slightly dated roller coaster is worth riding.84/100
