If we're going to talk about hyper realistic film making let's forget about the likes of Peter Watkin's , Mike leigh Ken Loach etc and talk about Frizt lang's M . I kept forgetting this was a feature film and consciously thought I was watching a 1931 German documentary featuring a serial child killer . Seriously I did . All throughout the running time we cut to concerned parents , policemen who have no leads and criminals who are falling over themselves wanting the child killer to be caught . And it should be pointed out that this is where the realism lies - the criminals have ulterior motives because the police search means the gangs can't operate their wares due to the heavy police presence . Something similar happened during the troubles in Northern Ireland in the 1970s and 80s when loyalist terror groups found they couldn't operate extortion rackets and robberies and drug dealing because their more extreme death squads carrying out secterian murders attracted too much attention from the RUC , so they eliminated them . Be very wary of criminals who take the moral high ground because there's no honour amongst thieves Peter Lorre as Hans Beckert doesn't appear in the movie until well after the halfway mark of the running time though his sickening shadow does hang over the film throughout . It's by no bad thing lorre's appearance is held back because after later emigrating to Hollywood the illusion is somewhat shattered when he finally does appear on screen and you only then realise you're watching a feature film and not a fly on the wall documentary , but as I said Lorre's bone chilling performance hangs over the entire film and Hans Beckert is one of the most disgustingly memorable villains from 20th century cinema If I have a problem watching M today it has nothing to do with the way it was originally made , it's all to do with the modern day presentation where there's no black background to the subtitles which means it's very difficult to read the white letters on the faded film print . I hope to see someone to a fully restored version where someone has taken the time and trouble to make the captions/subtitles easier to read


                
Spoilers herein.Seeing this again makes me wonder about the different ways people evaluate filmmakers. For me, a filmmaker has to have skills in conveyance ideally through novel as well as effective means, but he/she also must have something worth conveying.In the first measure, I've always regarded Lang as a production designer not a filmmaker. He poses as a filmmaker just as the seducer here poses as a friend. Both are talented fakers.In the second half of the equation, I have always been unsatisfied by the elementary social commentary he selects.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.
Overlong for sure and with a rather abrupt ending, this remarkably suspense filled film, is quite spellbinding at points, able to view several facets of society and interweave a number of stories with great clarity.Peter Lorre gives an impassioned performance, playing a servile and repugnant child murderer, before finally giving a powerful speech rebuking his captors and supplying an emotional and sympathetic statement on his plight. His performance is so good, we understand his problems, and any murderous intent we once had is quickly drained.As an essay on justice, and its motivations, the film weaves in its themes with great skill, the director able to juggle, drama, suspense, and a very real message with remarkable impact.The cinematography is amazing, able to tell a story with its powerful image easily: a strong visual drama. And the directors ability to illuminate the room and create emotion with his images is also very good, creating a paranoid or claustrophobic atmosphere with ease. Music is used sparingly, and the taut silence of chases, is particularly good. The editing is amazing for a film of this age, and create good tense storytelling with both complexity and clarity.The film lags a little in places, and could be tightened up all round, to create a taut, powerful thriller. But otherwise it is strong all round, with great images, performances, and production.


                
"M"... what an unusual title (a single one letter). Apparently insignificant, it means something though: "Mörder" ("Murderer" in German).For a 1931 film, this is far from looking so old. Looks more like a movie of the late 40's than from the early 30's. Most movies from the 30's are hopelessly dated. Also, for a 1931 film, some of the language used is a surprise.This movie tells the story of a mysterious child murderer and the challenge of catching him, as nobody knows who he is and he leaves no clues whatsoever. He is slowly introduced in a clever way as the movie runs. The weird thing is that this criminal only kills girls (only one boy is killed).My big complaint about this movie is that it wastes too much time in the police investigation scenes and the society's general concern about these hideous crimes. Also, I must confess, the policemen and the gangsters smoke so much that seeing all that smoke becomes nauseating.The film becomes more interesting and intense in the 2nd half, as the real hunt against the killer takes place. The "kangaroo court" scene is psychologically strong and the killer, at the same time he begs to spare his life, explains everything about his criminal nature.The criminal's sentence is unknown. It is almost revealed but just as that is about to happen, the shot cuts to some women saying that «No sentence will bring the children back. One has to keep closer watch over the children....... All of you».Peter Lorre's acting as the child murderer has a lot of dignity and his eyes are incredibly expressive. This superb performance is worthy of an Oscar for Best Actor.


                
In the words of a friend of the most astounding and most memorable criminal films that will strike you up for 117 minutes with fears and fears ... It's a movie made by a German cinema that sparkles the world of its silent cinema With Metropolis, he is undoubtedly one of the best directors ever in the history of cinema ... apart from the unsurpassed play of actors such as killer actress (Peter Laura) ... decoupage, museums, decor, music, and the language and the language of each image. It's a masterpiece, and maybe this is the image of the long-awaited omen of the cinematic cinema that has been made for years for that film.
A serial killer plagues a town in Germany. Numerous children have gone missing, being befriended by a stranger and then killed in a manner most horrifying. The police are struggling to find clues under the ever-growing pressure from the public for results. They start mounting an offense against the town's criminal underworld. So much so that those criminals decide to find the killer themselves to ease the situation.Fritz Lang's first sound picture and quite an impressive one at that. Lang experimented heavily with these new sound techniques. Most of them are so commonplace in modern cinema that you don't really notice them, but at the time they must have seemed very impressive indeed. One of the most notable traits - even today - is one of the earliest examples of the so called leitmotif technique, where a particular piece of music is attached to a particular character. Whenever you hear the Imperial March playing in Star Wars, for example, you know Darth Vader won't be far away. In this particular film the murderer likes to whistle "In the Hall of the Mountain King", and it is chilling indeed to see a child playing on the screen and then hear the whistling start off-screen.The other major point in this film's favour is Peter Lorre as the murderer. Especially the final scene where he pleads about the demons in his head, about the dilemma of must versus want. A powerful scene and one I've often seen in film studies, which is why it's nice to have finally seen this film in its entirety.M is an old film, all the way back from early 30s, but it's still head and shoulders above the vast majority of films made after its first screening. Well worth a watch for all fans of crime and mystery.


                
I'd say this movie was one of the best movies right from the beginning of cinema till the 30's, nonetheless an extremely weak movie if one looks at the history of cinema. This movie would be around 999 in my 1000 best films of all time list. Quite frankly there's little to appreciate, except the fact that it has some genuine elements to it that were original, nonetheless they are utilized weakly.This is my final analysis of this movie and what I think has led to the downfall:Story: Original for a 1931 movie, some elements of suspense and thrill, but not to the point, (e.g. police procedure throughout the movie and i can see where they wanted to go from that, but it's quite unrealistic and impossible) far fetched, and unbelievable, certainly unfulfilling and boring. Way too much over-explanatory material (at least 40 minutes of the movie is police procedure and meetings that are quite unnecessary about which frankly, the audience couldn't care less) which makes the movie a super sleep pill!Characters: Almost the entire characters are briefly introduced, we don't really know much about them, thus most of them are impersonal (maybe except Lorre's character, and Elsie's mother) Direction: As I said the movie does have some elements of suspense, and thrill: e.g. 'M' at the back of Lorre's overcoat, Lorre's whistling, the mother waiting for her child's arrival) which are done perfectly in my opinion, But I can't see how Fritz Lang expected the audience to react watching approx. 40 min. of pointless meetings & conversations e.g. Wernicke reads 6 pages of police reports on the phone for Stein. Music: The movie has no music, and interestingly enough neither does it any sound effects. Weak!Camera Work, Cinematography: Camera is shaken continuously throughout the movie, mind you not as an effect but because it's sloppy; the scenes are blurryMese En Scene: Very to the point, not much of frame space spent on background, not many close-ups, no music, no sound effects, no added sound except for annoying noises from time to time: e.g. someone screaming, whistling, etc.Light: A 1931 movie, and not an Orson Welles film so naturally light is terrible, nonetheless expressionistic.Montage: Just a matter of putting the film together, nothing specialActing: I give Peter Lorre 8/10 for acting, as he is quite a gifted actor, and his performance at the end is applaud-able. As for the rest of the cast, unbelievable, weak, and quite frankly uninteresting, except maybe for the balloon vendor at the end of the movie!


                
A child murderer terrorizes a German city in this classic thriller. Lang's expressionistic camera work is quite remarkable, efficiently conveying information visually. However, the script is weak, rambling aimlessly for much of the middle part of the film. The plot line concerning the underground criminals and the beggars detracts from what could have been a tightly constructed investigative film. The acting is not good for the most part. The bug-eyed, diminutive Lorre is an interesting presence, but he overacts wildly. Despite these shortcomings, it's worth watching for its historical importance and for the issues it raises, which are are still timely.


                
It isn't often a villain immediately invites the vitriol of the audience than a child murderer, or even more importantly, a sex offender. Director Fritz Lang intended this film as a stark warning against child neglect (as the very last few lines underline). The very lengthy meetings and discussions as to how the murderer be apprehended are enlivened somewhat by the challenge that characters have of actually seeing one another amidst the fog of all pervading cigar and pipe smoke. The acting is solid throughout, if theatrical in a manner typical of this period of film making. Talking pictures were very much in their infancy here and so the style of acting is highly visual – this is no complaint: the extravagant gestures enhance the atmosphere much as they did in the early sound Universal pictures. It has to be said that the performances here are even slightly restrained (if that is the right word) compared to others of this era.And yet Peter Lorre, in his first major role, creates a true presence amongst all this, which is vital to the effectiveness of the story after the weight of expectation placed upon his character Hans Beckert. His reputation is discussed at length, and the first few glimpses we get of him are silent. Wide eyed and unassuming, this little man seems far from the monster we have been lead to believe he is. His mannerisms of jumpy neurosis and excitement upon spying children – especially young girls – going about their business are bravely portrayed given the subject matter, and in no time, we believe in him thoroughly.Fritz Lang names this as his favourite of all his films, and it is easy to see why. The direction is inventive and almost surreal in places, inviting us fleetingly in to Beckert's world: a parade of photographs of his victims snatched away from our view to reveal the sea of scowling faces of Beckert's unelected jury; the revelation of the balloon Beckert bought for one of his young victims taking centre stage as he backs fearfully away from the incriminating toy; unusual viewpoints and distant camera work during the chase towards the end. Finally, Beckert's crumbling admission and cries of 'I can't help it!' A broken man guilty of the most heinous crime, viewed by a band of vigilantes impassively observing his meltdown. It is strong stuff of course, and caused the expected controversy at the time and since, but we take a long time to get to this point. A lot of time – rather too much for my enjoyment – is spent with other, lesser characters and their endless plans to capture the miscreant. At nearly two hours, it is too long – hardly surprising that an edited version (running at 98 minutes) was released in 1960. Yet what we have here is nevertheless a ground-breaking film, stunningly directed with a flourish that would prove inspirational for years to come, and a barnstorming central performance so strong that Lorre had cause to resent the subsequent type-casting that resulted.
Like I said this film does not hide it's age, even though its age might be younger than you'd think. The story itself was good, and the acting was rich, but like most movies from this time period, ends on an odd note. Personally I've enjoyed endings to be impactful in one way or another, leaving me with something to think about. But again this isn't the movies fault per se. However I'm only 20 so take what I say with some salt, but yes it's a bit boring and droning at times, sometimes background characters do something that annoys me since it seems illogical, and it seems to fall apart a bit at the end, but I enjoyed the watch and would recommend it to those wishing to fill there collection of important films!


                
The film does not follow the focal point of one person, but of some big communities in the city, a choice which strengthens an overall feeling of anxiety and impatience.The beginning is strong, with some great suggestive, silent scenes that create an eerie tension. Lang should have incorporated more of these. Likewise, a pro for the moving camera work.The mass hysteria and amateuristic manhunt does not feel believable, all the random arrests based on some citizen's anxieties feel unrealistic.Good acting performance by Peter Lorre, the scene were he pleads his innocence is particularly strong.The film raises a complex moral issue and concludes with an open ending in court after having heard both the defendant and the prosecutor, this challenges the viewer to make his own judgment over the guilt of M.
I went to look for this because I heard that it was Germany's best film. To be truly honest I prefer the German War films I have seen (with the exception of Downfall, I'm sorry but I hated the effect that movie had on me), so I then bought it because I thought it would be worth buying... It is worth it but not as much as others like Das Boot or Stalingrad (Stalingrad IS my favourite German film).The plot is that a child murderer, when killing his 8th victim causes more tension in the town than the viewer would have watching The Thing. He writes a letter to the newspaper saying he is not going to stop (which to me is kind of a dumb move if your causing that much tension in the town). Cops then decide to raid every house and every business within the town. A group decide to get together and find this murderer themselves because it would ruin business.As far as films go this one does have reason to be a classic, I did expect more than what I got (No offense to readers but with older films I get that very often, but not that often in foreign classics) the actor playing the child murderer is the best performance out of the whole thing.So all in all this is worth a shot but it is not what everybody says.


                
I think it is safe to say that Fritz Lang's M was the very first serial killer film in the history of cinema. And it's not secret that it spawned a genre that has produced timeless classics like Shadow of a Doubt or Psycho, as well as more contemporary classics like Silence of the Lambs and Se7en. For this we all owe M serious credit. This film is about a mysterious child murderer who terrorizes the consciences of the German people. The hunt for this mad man stretches from the police, to the common citizen, and even the common criminal. It's an interesting take (and also the first take) on public reaction to a situation as dire as this, as well as a dark look into the mind of an insane killer.This film explores many realms of psychology and how each social demographic would react to something as unimaginably terrible as murdered children. The topics prevalent in the film are very interesting to think about in retrospect but while actually viewing the film they get somewhat lost. Parts of this film seem fairly dry emotionally during the setup for major plot advancements. Towards the beginning we see the police reaction to these murderers as they crack down hard on finding who is responsible. They violate personal privacy of many people for the sake of finding this killer. This idea is most definitely present and easy to understand, but it seems to lack emotional integrity and makes me feel like it could have hit harder. I felt like this less and less as the movie progressed and by the end it finally picks up to practically be an emotional roller coaster.Where this film absolutely does not fall short is its artistic style. There are some fantastic artistic decisions made by Fritz Lang to really bring across the style of this film. M is, undoubtedly, an eerie film. It ventures into very uncomfortable places of the human mind. The film does a fantastic job at keeping you on edge and out of your comfort zone. This is accomplished mainly by the visual style of the film. Lang employs an extremely effective use of shadows to give the film its dark and mysterious air. The entire film is characterized by its subtle yet effective visuals, all put together meticulously in eerie black and white cinematography.Artistically M is brilliant. Some of the story and character development leave something to be desired, but it all works out by the thrilling conclusion of the film. It's intelligent, cynical, and unexpected. Putting this film in the perspective of its time period (the 1930's) it is most definitely way ahead of its time, and for that I can have nothing but undying respect for the film, even if there were parts that didn't suit me. M was certainly a significant advancement in cinema and will forever be one of the timeless classics that affected, and continues to affect, film today.


                
Ultimately, I think how you got to find out about 'M' does influence to a degree how you perceive it.If you were to approach this after being told it was one of the greatest movies ever; I think you would be disappointed. But only because, such a comment implies that it should be viewed on equal terms with films of today (which have used and added to many of the ideas in this film).However, given I came across it as part of a "Cult Film" box-set which included Plan 9 from Outer Space, my expectations were not necessarily high.Viewed as a piece of movie making from early 1930s, it's quite fascinating. Directionally, it is very impressive, apart from a most unusual shot of a policeman at a desk viewed from below the desk. I guess the idea is to imply a "Land of the Giants" feel, but you end up in a Spinal Tap moment, as you start hypothesising about what is wrapped around the cucumber.Peter Lorre is brilliant, yet you can't but help notice exaggerated acting moments more akin to a silent movie. And yet, there are other moments where his acting is so sublime you wonder whether there has been any significant improvements in the supposed art at all in 75yrs. The sound also links back to silent film, in that, whilst a talkie with music, there are significant moments of silence; which add such a strange atmosphere to the film you wonder why someone doesn't try it with a film made today.And, it has that one thing I like about old films. Time. It takes its time.The world has changed incredibly in 75yrs, yet this film is still entertaining, provoking and ultimately leaves the viewer at the end with something to decide. For just these reasons its worth watching, but it's definite you will not forget it (and Im talking here about more than cucumbers).


                
This movie was pretty good. I was forced to watch it at school and I was actually pretty surprised with how good it was. I thought it was comparable to Shadow of a Doubt in some ways. The camera movement and use of shadows was pretty similar. I would probably not recommend this movie to other people but I would not tell them to totally avoid it.I liked the use of shadows in this movie as well as the camera movement and use of odd angles. The plot was also interesting though sometimes hard to follow. The characters really did well in playing their parts and made me enjoy the movie. Like I said I wouldn't recommend this movie to friends but I wouldn't tell them to totally stay away from this movie because it is okay.


                
M is a great movie from the 30 decade, the way the story is told is interesting, the script is good, the direction of the great Fritz Lang, the cast is very good, all is well, the photo of the film is good, costume design is great, the dialogues the film is the great strength of the film, the pace is competent, if the film was bigger, maybe stay tiring, the film is not for everyone, is not all that will like the movie, many will find boring movie, I liked the movie, I enjoyed the plot and the dialogues, the soundtrack also matches the film, which has a very dark tone, those who like to film with Serial Killer probably will like the film more who ta used to it so with horror movie and comedy, probably will hate the film, M is a good film, and has an excellent direction of Fritz Lang, one of the most important directors of cinema. Note 7.8


                
Subtle, appropriately bleak, film also works as a portrait of early 1930s Berlin, a city of (then) four and a half million people, and the fear and dread, the slow realisation by a handful of them, that young Elsie has gone missing, is gone, the latest victim of an unknown killer, without ever showing any on-screen violence. A grim intimation. The unknown killer writes to the press, taunting them, almost daring them to catch him, a la Jack The Ripper. Handwriting analysis is done on the letter, to no avail. Nervousness increases, accusations run wild, fingers are pointed, and paranoia sets in further, as both the police, as well as the criminal underworld, search for the killer.Thriller skirts the edges of horror, as well as early film noir, as both organised crime, and the police trace any clues to find the killer, who, in a smoke-filled room, it is said could be "a harmless citizen, who wouldn't hurt a fly" - could that have been an inspiration for Psycho? Top-billed Peter Lorre Lorre has precious little screen time in the beginning, only becoming dominant in the final act, after a blind man recognises the tune he is whistling, after hearing the killer whistle the same song. Overhead shot of Lorre being encircled on the wide open street was probably the first time an overhead shot was used, and to great effect, so was the nearly abstract views of the staircases. Lorre's character is filled with fear, trying to hide, then trying to escape from the junk room of the building. We almost forget he's a killer, we almost understand the fear he felt in those moments, and the following moments as a room full of criminals put him on trial, in their own kangaroo court.What makes this such a chilling movie, which gets under one's skin and sticks in one's mind, is that there is absolutely no on-screen violence. Everything is implied, nothing is shown, and there is not the slightest bit of humour to break the tension.


                
Not so long ago I watched another German classic by Fritz Lang - Metropolis. M was released only XXX years after it. Yet, in such little time, a radical development happened, which altered filmmaking completely. Actors could now talk. The silent film era was over. And oh lord, did Fritz Lang surely know how to use voiced cinema.This movie is a gem. For enjoying it, present-day viewers need to keep in mind that the public that was watching M was not used to watching in cinemas long dialogs like in the theatre. And probably Lang took many resources from theatre, but since them they have become cinema's heritage. There's so many tropes, so many pathos formulae and plot tricks that were used in this movie for the first time. It would be practically impossible nowadays to make a crime movie without borrowing, consciously or unconsciously, elements from M. From the public paranoia and the work of the police to the public persecution and personalization of the killer, everything in this movie has been reused over and over.Of course, the genre has evolved since then, and for being the first Suspense movie ever, it is probably among the most suspenseless movies I've ever watched. But that's not M's fault, it's just that contemporary cinema has made a much more demanding viewer than the one this movie is intended to. So much is that, that the movie can now even be seen as a parody of suspense movies; a comedy. There are scenes that are truly hilarious; some of it because they are meant to be funny, and others just because they are not something you would expect from a suspense movie nowadays (such as the crime organization meeting to discuss the issue of the murderer, probably among the most surrealist aspects of the movie). And the angry, expressive, theatrical German goes a long way in helping to make this movie funny.There are some thing that are quite unique, and that I miss in modern cinema. Where did all those theatrical dialogs go? Where are the contemporary movies with breathtaking final monologues, where the actor gives his best as if speaking to the theatre audience? From time to time, filmmakers should revise classics; drop the tropes that have since then become too overused, and be re-inspired by wonderful, rich movies such as M.


                
MThe only time it's acceptable to kill a child is if they're crying uncontrollably while you're in a restaurant, at a theater, or on an airplane.Unfortunately, the monster in this thriller committed his crimes far from the tarmac. When the law comes down on Berlin's underworld due to a rash of child killings, the criminals in turn conduct their own search for the culprit (Peter Lorre) to clear their names and cool the heat.Marked with the letter M while abducting another victim, the kid killer is finally caught<U+0085>but not by police.Brought before gangland judges to answer for his crimes, the accused calls out the courts own morality.Director Fritz Lang's first talkie, M is masterfully shot and marvelously performed by Peter Lorre, who magically embodies the creepy persona of the repentant predator. However, Germans wouldn't be so adverse to the kid killings if the blonde/blue-eyed ones were spared.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca


                
Fritz Lang is a director who is quite well known. His most famous film is the groundbreaking masterpiece Metropolis. The other film he is known for is M, his first sound film. The film tells the story of a serial killer named Hans. He only preys on children and because of this causes a massive manhunt that leaves all of Berlin on edge (it never says where in Germany it takes place, but since it's so large, I'm just saying Berlin). The police start to get out of hand, they raid bars and houses every night just to find Hans. A group of criminals get sick of this and set out to find Hans themselves. This is not a mystery story. You know who the murder is within the first 15 minutes. It's a thriller that creates tension for both parts of the audience. Those who want Hans to be caught and those who want him not to be caught. When a thriller can create tension for everyone who has their own viewpoint, you know your watching a good movie. This is why Hitchcock's Psycho works so well. Peter Lore as Hans is great. He is just so mysterious and looks rather harmless, but inside he is a broken man who needs help. Most of the cast are good, in fact. Even the child actors were O.K. Fritz Lang's direction is works really well in the field of suspense and tension. His hints of violence, but never showing the murders themselves, leaves the audience to use their imagination. Doing this you can learn a lot about yourself. I do have some problems with this film, though. My main problem is that it was a tiny bit hard to get 100% invested in the characters and their situations because we don't see much of Hans actually hunting down and killing children. The police claim him to be a terrible monster, but during the events of the movie, he only kills one child and attempts at another one, but fails and then finds another one and again fails. If he would of murdered at least two more people during the events, I would of been more invested and think "Yeah, this guy needs to be caught, he's murdered so many kids." Another flaw is that the climax is dull and repetitive. Overall, M is well acted, well directed film.....but it has flaws.


                
Directed by Fritz Lang (Metropolis, Secret Beyond the Door), this German film was a title I had heard of so many times, and I memorised it being in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I was definitely going to be watching it. Basically in Berlin, Germany, a number of child abductions and murders have been taking place, wanted posters are all over the place to find the psychopathic killer, this man lures his child victims with candy, balloons and other child-friendly items. The most substantial evidence the police, led by Inspector Karl Lohmann (Otto Wernicke), have collected are hand written letters from the killer himself, to be published by the press in newspapers, and also a Blind Panhandler (Georg John) who sold a man a balloon to a child remembers hearing key information to identify the killer, the man whistles Edvard Grieg's "In The Hall of the Mountain King", from the 'Peer Gynt' Suite I Op. 46 while luring the children. The police are not getting anywhere fast, as members of the paranoid public are tipping them about any person seen and quickly accused of being suspicious, but also criminals are taking the case into their own hands, wanting to catch the killer themselves while the police are straining their ability of conducting criminal activities. The killer himself, Hans Beckert (Peter Lorre) is a self-loathing man, on the occasion the blind beggar recognised his whistling, he passes a message and gets a man to mark on Beckert's back the letter "M" with chalk (this stands for Mörder, meaning "murderer" in German), he eventually realises he is being followed, but gets caught by the criminals hiding in a building. Beckert in a criminal "court room" scenario is put on "trial", in a passionate monologue he explains that his urges compelled him to commit murders, which he regrets, the other criminals break the law by choice, and he pleads to be handed over to the police. The enraged mob are about to kill Beckert, but the police arrive to arrest him and the other criminals, Beckert is taken to a real courtroom where five judges will pass judgement, but the sentence is not seen, instead it cuts to many crying parents to murdered children before fading to black. Also starring Gustaf Gründgens as Safecracker/Safebreaker, Theo Lingen as Con Man, Inge Landgut as child Elsie Beckmann, Ellen Widmann as mother Frau Beckmann, Fritz Odemar as The Cheater, Theodor Loos as Inspector Groeber, Paul Kemp as Pickpocket with Six Watches, Friedrich Gnass as burglar Franz, Franz Stein as Minister and Ernst Stahl-Nachbaur as Police Chief. Lorre was best known playing sinister snivelling characters like parody, here he is genuinely rather menacing who catches and kills children, following his captures with chilling whistling. I admit the film was a little all over the place at times, especially with the concept of both police and criminals searching for the guilty man, but this being Lang's first talking picture is clever in its use of sound, from the clicking of a knife to crowd scenes, and of course the whistling, it is definitely one to be seen as a masterpiece, a great classic crime drama. Very good!
