The economy, austerity and directness of the films of Fritz Lang made him one of the most profound, and precise filmmakers... Lang, a master of the German expressionist film, shot his first talkie, a crime drama considered a landmark in the story of suspense movies... It was a shocking idea for its time, based on the real-life killer Peter Kurten, headlined as the Vampire of Düsseldorf...'M' is about a terrorized city, and a plump little man with wide eyes (often chewing candy) who is a pathological child-killer, unable to control his urge for killing... The film embodies several Lang themes: the duality between justice and revenge, mob hysteria, the menacing anticipation of watching a helplessly trapped individual trying fruitlessly to escape as greater forces move inexorably in, and, for probably the first time in the cinema, it adds a new dimension to suspense: pity... For the killer is clearly mentally sick... He cannot overcome the overwhelming compulsion of his murderous disease, and yet, we see him hunted down and almost lynched as a criminal, rather than treated as a sick man... Early in the film, the killer is heard whistling the Grieg theme from 'In the Hall of the Mountain King'. This theme inexorably becomes imbued with menace... And when we see no more than a girl looking in a shop window, the melody on the sound-track told us chillingly that the murderer is there, just out of sight...The Murderer is played by Peter Lorre in a virtuoso performance that has barely been matched in all the thrillers he has made since 'Casablanca,' 'The Maltese Falcon,' and 'The Mask of Dimitrios.' When the photographs of his victims, all little girls, are shown to him, he jumps back and twitches with horror...With powerful visuals, Lang's motion picture is Lorre's first film... His performance as the corpulent, hunted psychopath is a masterpiece of mime and suggestion... Lorre is the archetypal outsider-outside the law and society because of his compulsive crimes, outside the balancing society of the underworld because he is not a professional criminal... He had only twelve lines of dialog...In the most famous of all about a pathological killer - Alfred Hitchcock's 'Psycho' - Anthony Perkins lacked not only the threat of the tortured Peter Lorre, but also the dimension of invoking our incredulous sympathy... 'Psycho' reeked with blood and horror, whereas the suspense of 'M' is subtle... A child's balloon without an owner, a rolling ball, are enough to tell us that another murder had been committed... The audience, trapped in its seats, torn by ambivalent feelings towards the killer, watched him trapped as the net is pulled tight...


                
Being a huge fan of German Expressionist art, I'm naturally drawn to the films of Fritz Lang.  I recently was able to see the restored version of "Metropolis" on the big screen, and was delighted to see "M" on the Sundance channel - especially since it was the uncut version.  M follows the trail of a child killer (Peter Lorre), sought both by the police and the members of the underworld whose businesses are being effected by the investigation. 
This film is ground-breaking for many reasons:  It is Fritz Lang's first talking picture, it is one of the first in the serial killer genre and it was overtly anti-Nazi.  This film was banned in Germany shortly after it premiered, and Fritz Lang and Peter Lorre, both Jews, soon fled the country. It has superb acting (most notably, Peter Lorre's trial scene in the catacombs) and very stark yet at times gritty cinematography.  The story is indeed suspenseful and at times, very creepy (what whistling child killer isn't?).  The entire movie, however is extremely thought-provoking and challenging, much like the German Expressionist movement itself. 
This is not a movie for everyone; some may find it boring, some may find it too abstract. It also has one of the most bizarre shots I've ever seen in film - essentially it's a 30 second shot of the police inspector talking on the phone, but you're under his desk and looking up his pants leg.  It actually kind of baffled me and made me chuckle for a second, but it was avant garde if anything.To those who appreciate early cinema that truly makes you think, both about the film and the subtext with which it was written and filmed, it is a must-see. --Shelly


                
The first question you might find yourself asking while watching this movie is just where the hell is the 'stranger danger'? Despite the news of a serial killer preying on children in the news for a long time, we still see children on the street alone, and one easily lured in with candy and treats. Peter Lorre is brilliant in the role of the killer, setting the tone early on as director Fritz Lang cuts to him looking in the mirror, and, like a child, distorting his face to look monstrous, while the police are talking about the psychological profile of a killer.While the police are shown at work with some early examples of forensics – fingerprints, handwriting analysis, and sifting through physical evidence in concentric circles around the crime scene – the overall picture of them is unflattering. In a very heavy-handed way they begin putting heat on the street and in pubs, asking for papers and rounding people up for little reason, motivating an organized crime ring to get involved to find the killer themselves and get things back to normal. The police and mob are barely distinguishable as they both discuss the matter over cigars and alcohol in separate meetings as Lang flips back and forth between them, and perhaps that's one of his larger points about Germany at the time. He does do a fantastic job at establishing a dark feel to the film throughout, and is brilliant when he cuts the sound a few times, letting the action speak for itself, which is heightened because of the darkness of it all.Unfortunately the movie gets a little bogged down in its middle portion, when Lang could have shown us other sinister acts from Lorre or at built some type of backstory in his characters. Instead, he shows us the surveillance network of beggars and focuses too much on procedure. At one point we do see Lorre nearly salivating at the sight of a child's reflection in the window of a shop he's looking into, and at another, him trying to lure in his next victim, but he's simply not on-screen enough. I have to also say that when the mob have found him holed up in a building and don't just call the police instead painstakingly going through the rooms, it seems like a plot hole, since from their perspective all they need is to get the police off the streets.The ultimate scene showing Lorre confronted by a mob intent on killing him after a mock trial redeems the film, however, and is riveting. The scene of Lorre seeing them all staring at him as Lang has the camera pan slowly from left to right is brilliant, as is his own statement in self-defense shortly afterward. We have an unruly mob confronting a child killer, where both sides are reprehensible. We feel for the mob when they voice their concern that he will simply serve a little time in a mental institution, then be back on the street again and kill again. Perhaps improbably, we even feel for Lorre, as he says he's sick, in what is one of the great scenes in film.There are few positive role models here, except perhaps the counsel who stands up and says and tries to defend him. This a dark, brooding film showing us some of the worst aspects of mankind. A child killer, sure, but also a mob which draws the wrong conclusions and gets violent without evidence. There is a lot of smoking and drinking. Lang shows one guy drinking out of a giant stein with a plateful of sausages in front of him, and another guy from a camera angle up his crotch practically as he's sitting down. If it was made by someone other than a German, you might think it a caricature, as it's made by Lang, we know he's expressing his frustrations with the state of Germany at the time. The ending that has a mother simply asking the audience to watch out for their children probably refers to watching out against predators, but also watching out for them that they don't get swept up into mob hysteria (history would turn out differently of course). It's this hidden message warning against Nazi Germany, Lorre's performance, and Lang's direction that all make this a very good film.
Peter Lorre stars in "M," a 1931 German Expressionist film directed by Fritz Lang.I saw a restored version of this film -- apparently over the years it has been being pieced together when new sections are found. This ran 111 minutes.Lorre plays a child murderer (and probably molester, though that isn't stated) who is terrorizing a town in Germany and writing to the police and to the press.Believe it or not, with such a serious and daring subject, the film actually has some humor. When the police can't get the murderer, a group of burglars, angry at all the extra security and difficulties the murderer has caused them, decide they have to get him themselves. They round up beggars, who are everywhere and not noticed, and the burglars watch them. Each person is responsible for a section of the city.The acting is marvelous. Lorre is magnificent as a pathetic man who has a compulsion to kill. The other actors are wonderful as well. Due to the difference in acting styles today, the audience laughed in a couple of places that were not meant to be laughed at. That's understandable.The film has sections which are completely silent, with no music.The end of the film is a little abrupt, but nevertheless effective.This is a true masterpiece from the hand of Fritz Lang, who also co-wrote the script. The print was excellent as well, and the film is in German with English subtitles.It was important to see the newly found pieces of the film, though I'm not sure how much it added.Definitely a film to see with Peter Lorre's great performance that made him a star.


                
Hasn't aged well, but for it's time it is surprisingly like a modern crime story. Modern audiences will probably find the first 3/4 of the film too slow, I finally had to fast-forward to the end of the chase to the kangaroo court. 
That court was very thought-provoking and the same arguments are used today. Is the criminal insane and not accountable? Should the murderer be summarily executed? 
I enjoyed the way the criminals shadowed M, hadn't seen that technique done before. What an ingenious way to prevent suspicion of the suspect that he's being tailed!!!
The film is about a child murderer that roams the streets of Paris, avoiding the police at every turn. What i love most about this film is that while the killer is just a faceless monster at the start of the film, but he becomes a very nuanced, complicated character with a passionate speech by the end. And it makes you really think about the nature of what it means to be an evil person. Are we evil because we choose to be? Or is evil something that can be thrust upon us, that takes us over, and forces us to do terrible things? These are questions that the film looks at, and to see such a sympathetic portrayal of a killer in 1931 is mind blowing to me. This is something that captivated audiences in 1991's The Silence of the Lambs because of how fresh, and original it was. And then to see the same thing done 60 years before is nothing short of spectacular.Many people have pointed out how Lorre's overacting is one the biggest strength's of the movie, and i'm inclined to agree. Every time the camera zones in on his face as we see an expression of delight, horror, or fear, it really shows the emotion of the scene without the need for dialogue.I do like the juxtaposition of the police and criminal characters throughout and the different paths they choose to pursue through the film.I don't know if i would consider this a masterpiece though. While i find the pacing and characters are very good, I feel like it runs on a little bit too long, and kinda meanders in certain spots. The story is good, and has a lot of smart moments, but it's nothing so wholly original that I feel the need to rave about it.Overall i would say that this is a great movie for it's time, from a great director, that definitely deserves to be talked about.


                
M A smart approach towards pacing up the feature by focusing on the big events or sequences amd investing all the chips in and mesmerize the audience along with the essential information that proves worthy later on. Fritz Lang is definitely no short on execution but also introduces some new lights on the whole 'mystery' genre with Thea Von Harbou where it focuses on the thrill of it and not the responsibility of it that mostly looks like homework in the end. Peter Lorre; the anti-hero in here has easily the hardest work given since he barely had enough verbal sparring between anyone and had to communicate the audience through the visual medium throughout the feature and he has done it well. M is that rare feature that shows the viewers its different perspective towards genre, characters and even humanity and this is where it sweeps away all the charm.


                
. . . but M is carefully crafted to show that there's even less Virtue to be found among police and government officials. Director Fritz Lang's provocative thesis is that all it takes is one evil man--say a failed painter or an Emmy-losing game show host--to corrupt and curse an entire nation. Lang's M presents Peter Lorre as a crazed child killer who elicits the intrusive Big Brother German Fascist Efficiency that would soon send Gestapo thugs fanning out across Europe for building-to-building Terroristic searches resulting in Anne Frank and millions of other moms, pops, and kiddies being tattooed, recorded in ledger books, stripped, gassed, and burned. All basic Human Rights are suspended in the face of M, as happened in Real Life within a few years of its premier. As Mark Twain's historical tome SAINT JOAN best illustrates, the "Maid of Orlean's" top general turned out to be a notorious child killer just like M, cursing France to be conquered at least a dozen times by England, Russia, Germany, Algeria, and Vietnam. Most people know that the Chicago Police Hob-Nobbed with the infamous child killer John Wayne Gacy as a prelude to the Troubles facing the U.S. Today. Every American, therefore, should view M ASAP.
Considering the fact that I regard director Fritz Lang's Metropolis as one of the crowning achievements in sci-fi cinema, I expected M to be an early hallmark of the thriller genre. However, while there's plenty to admire about Lang's first "talkie," it doesn't live up to the high standard set by Metropolis. The film follows two distinct groups, one composed of criminals and the other composed of police investigators, as they search for a serial killer of children after he strikes for the ninth time. What's most interesting about the film from a storytelling standpoint is that Lang eschews having a principal protagonist. Instead, Lang presents a three-prong narrative that focuses on Otto Wernicke's Inspector Karl Lohmann, Gustaf Gründgens' The Safecracker, and Peter Lorre's child killer Hans Beckert. Lang's decision to weave three story lines into one coherent narrative is a bold move, especially for a film nearly ninety years old, but Lang struggles just a tad to harness them all, leading to some slack pacing. The structure of the film felt akin to that of L.A. Confidential, but whereas that film functioned as a fascinating three- pronged character study, the characters in M unfortunately aren't as complex.However, it is refreshing to see Lorre receive plenty of screen time, considering his status as the film's antagonist. Most mystery films today spend their entire run time building up to the "big reveal," but Lang's decision to reveal the identity of the murderer halfway through allows for the film to benefit from Lorre's phenomenal acting. Carried mostly by a wide range of facial expressions, Lorre's performance elevates the film to a classic of German cinema. Despite his largely nonverbal performance, Lorre is also the beneficiary of one of the film's highlights: a powerful third act monologue in which Beckert reveals his motivations for the killings. The monologue itself proves magnificent, but I cannot help but feel that it's somewhat ill- conceived. I appreciate the fact that Lang devotes time to developing Beckert, crafting a more well-rounded character as a result, but I cannot sympathize with him. At his core, Beckert is still a child murderer, regardless of the contents of his speech. It almost feels like Lang uses the speech in an attempt to garner some last-minute sympathy for the character, but in that regard, he fails to hit the mark. Additionally, while the film's climax in and of itself is fantastic, the abrupt ending struck me as lazy and rushed. I can understand why Lang would want to leave Beckert's fate ambiguous, but another minute or two wouldn't have hurt.However, the film finds success in a multitude of other areas. For one, the camera work feels remarkably fluid, with Lang and his cinematographer Fritz Arno Wagner pulling off an array of technically impressive crane and tracking shots. Wagner's harsh lighting lends itself perfectly to the film's tense atmosphere as well. Apart from Lorre, the rest of the cast also delivers fine performances. Gründgens has a particularly solid turn as a career criminal driven to capture Beckert for his own sake while Wernicke makes the most of his cunning, unlikable detective. Lang also makes it clear that his career as a filmmaker began in the silent era, experimenting with the presence or absence of noise in certain scenes. The scenes bereft of noise are the most notable, with Lang selectively using them to amplify the tension. Initially, it feels jarring to see dozens of people milling around on screen without the presence of background noise or an orchestral soundtrack, but Lang's directorial skill prevent these scenes from feeling disconnected from the main narrative. Perhaps the main achievement here is that these overtly experimental scenes do not feel overly so.While I expected more from the director of one of sci-fi's most enduring cinematic masterpieces, I enjoyed most of what M had to offer. The cast, especially Lorre, delivers uniformly strong performances, while the film proves technically impressive in regards to its cinematography as well. And like any great thriller, there's also an underlying message that still resonates today, if even it is a bit too on the nose. However, while the film has certainly endured with age and still proves compelling from a mystery standpoint, it fails to reach the level of Metropolis because of Beckert's somewhat questionable characterization and storytelling flaws concerning the uneven pacing and overuse of exposition.Rating: 8/10 (Great)
M is subtitled. Having to "read" a movie isn't something I generally like to do. If I happen to see a subtitled movie on TV, the first thing I will do is reach for the remote. With the remote in hand, ready for use, I will give the movie a few minutes to prove itself, and when it doesn't, click to something else. I did not click off of M.First, the print I saw on TCM was excellent, very pristine. I would assume that it had been restored. The acting was very good, given that the movie was made in 1931 when film acting could get a little over the top. The storyline (an unidentified murderer of children on the loose) seemed very contemporary and it was played out with suspense. Peter Lorre was both scary and pathetic as the killer. Solid film, beginning to end.
If you get this film on BluRay it includes both the German version and an English language version. I watched the original German not realizing at first that they made an English version and that it was included on the BluRay. The subtitles were good but its difficult sometimes for someone like myself who likes to appreciate the visual artistry of a film (framing, lighting, acting etc). So when I noticed that the Blu-Ray included the English version I decided to watch it again. Big mistake! You'll notice right away that the film isn't as good. Most of the English version is just dubbed over but some scenes were actually shot in English. You'd think it would be the same basic film but it wasn't. They edited it differently. Some scenes were cut short. Other shots were left out completely, or changed. The scenes shot in English were noticeable not as good and its thought that the Fritz Lang didn't direct the English parts. In summary, only watch this film in German.


                
The movie opens with couple of children playing in front of an apartment, and a mother setting table for lunch for her daughter, yet to return from school. Everything seems normal and that's when the spine chilling felonious character surfaces. We immediately learn that, there is a child murderer in the town and has already slay ed 8 children and the girl whose mother is waiting for lunch is the ninth victim. The town becomes unrest about the untamed psychopath, still at large. The Police in desperation start raiding every corner of the town. The sudden surge in Police activity is a bad news for local gangsters and crime syndicates, as these raids disturb their business. The bad guys of underworld arrange a clandestine meet to decide how to get rid of Police raids. Only way they find is to catch the pathological child killer, the police looking for. The syndicate puts every beggar in the town on the man hunt. Each street will be monitored by a beggar and he'll keep an eye on the every girl child in the street until she goes in to home or school or passes to the next street. The effort pays off. A blind man selling balloons, hears a man passing by whistling and he suddenly recalls that the tune was same from a man who purchased a balloon for school girl few weeks ago, and the same day the girl went missing. The killer already has tenth victim with him, lured by a candy. The vendor quickly alerts nearest beggar, and the beggar, in order to not to lose the murderer in the crowd, pretends to slip and clutches the killer for support and transfers onto the back on his shoulder a big 'M' that he previously chalked on his palm. The murderer is caught and is bought to a remote warehouse to face trial. The trial is conducted by the parents of the victims, beggars and the underworld syndicate who hatched the plan. The murderer kind of defends his actions complaining that he is driven by these uncontrollable evil urges and blames his mental condition for his actions and pleads, others do not understand what he is going through. Just when the jury is about to declare verdict, police arrive and take him into custody. The real trial begins as the movie ends with a mother saying ' no sentence would bring back the dead children, and One has to keep closer watch over the children." The screen goes black as she adds, "All of you'.


                
Irving Thalberg assembled his writers and directors for a screening of M and told them that they need to make films like this that are innovative, meaningful and commercially successful. Todays Hollywood studio bosses must make same thing maybe then we can start to see quality dramas and thrillers again.Fritz Lang's M is absolute masterpiece and groundbreaking achievement in cinema. It is definitely one of the most powerful serial killer movies of all time. There aren't many films nowadays that are as creepy and thrilling as M (David Fincher's Zodiac is the one that comes to mind at first). The moment when the killer meets with his next victim Elsie gives a better creeps than any average horror film. And then when Elise's mother gets news that her daughter has been murdered you get that powerless and helpless feeling. Fritz Lang knows how to play with the emotions of the viewers.Peter Lorre is superb and creepy. No wonder people started to think that he was a child molester in real life too. Specially touching is his last speech in front of the self-appointed court where the main "judge" was killer himself. What an irony!M might seem bit slow or outdated (hey, the film is 70 year old, not many film from that era couldn't stand in time that well) for younger people who are used to modern and flashy Hollywood but still, it's a strong movie and must see for every serial killer movie fan because this is the film that started everything.


                
The mind—blowing panoramic aspect is obvious—Lang was not going to simply shot a police inquiry, but choose one of Berlin's proportions—all, stuffed with procedural elements and realist approach—and, significantly, not flirting with exploitation—Lang does not, despite what folks say, turn 'M' into a chiller. It is Lorre who indulges a bit in _picturesqueness and histrionics—though his performance constitutes of course a great show, the vividly Expressionistic element of this otherwise realist movie. A police procedural at the scale of a mega-city—this puts a conceptual problem, and Lang solved it by alternating his approaches—first, a city—scale survey—then, in the second half, a suspenseful, hugely thrilling urban thriller—and then a few treats in the form of several actors' recitals. Lang aims at scaring and terrifying, delighting, amusing, informing, thrilling his audiences with his procedural epic—a movie that investigates a whole city of Berlin's scale, a tight ordering of the essential elements of the story.The pace of 'M' is constantly excellent, yet the movie looks a bit patchy—changing quite suddenly from the panoramic police procedural to the crisp breathless thriller of the Benno Street operation and then to the several recitals—'Lohmann', 'Franz' (--the arrested thug--), and, of course, Lorre, whose performance is stagy but commending. The organic heterogeneity of 'M' is not perhaps a flaw, yet it somehow comes across as a lack and a partial loss of mastery. But the approach is changed and heterogeneous on even another plane—as visual storytelling—because 'M' becomes, slightly, smoothly, a truly sound movie as it progresses, the storytelling resembles less that of the silent flicks.The general level of the performances is visibly respectable, with the actors using fully their screen—time.'Lohmann', the tough, crushing and imposing cop, is a great role, and there's a long shot of his penis, from under the desk; the scene of the murderer's branding with chalk is awesome, and the fact that he's tracked down and identified by the middle of the movie.It seems immediately noticeable that M's artistic logic is, in the first third, essentially that of a silent movie, Lang doesn't really play or juggle with the sound, didn't really make it his own—thought the assassin's signature whistling is an important gimmick, then Lang's approach evolves, he takes heart, the sound is put to full use, it's wonderful to see this; a large part of Lang's career consists in his work as a genre director, he made perhaps more genre movies than any other great director (--except, of course, for Hitchcock, Hawks, Ford and --), and when he tries a more meditative form of cinema he was truly nowhere as good as Murnau or Renoir. Yet Lang's approach in M's first part is strikingly not that of a genre thriller—suspense, atmosphere, action (--though it latter picks up very alertly and becomes a brisk exciting thriller--), instead there's an almost humorous approach, satire elements, and the movie is conceived like a police procedural, an inverted detective story, a how catch'em, as they call these <U+0085>, with all the focus of a realist drama, and this brings us also to how could Lang's M be tentatively described—as a police procedural realist drama canvas with witty filming devices and comic embroidering for humorous relief, all told from a commonsensical and documentary POV –in a sense, and for the buffs interested in this stuff, Hitchcock's older crime story THE LODGER is Expressionistic to the hilt—but not Lang's M (--I know there are people who have found a reason to live in talking about how Hitchcock learned it all from German Expressionism via Lang whose sets he visited as a youngster, etc.--). But then—rewarding suspense to the hilt! And in a word, 'M' is a police epic, a police procedural epic on Berlin's scale, from a time when the German cinema had something to say <U+0085>.
This movie is contrived, hokey, corny, stagy, and dated and would be virtually unwatchable, but is saved by one person, Peter Lorre. His performance as the pervert/murderer is outstanding and allows one to forget the obviously dated contrivances that characterize this movie. The impressionistic character of this movie is unmistakable. Scene after the scene the director attempts to use all kind of wide angled and skewed camera shots to generate certain feelings. Other times he uses close ups. These are all transparent attempts at manipulating the audience through gimmickry instead of through the story itself. If the story is strong, the gimmickry is not necessary. Here, the story is good but alone is not enough to sustain a full-length motion picture. Further, the story is so contrived as to create a need to prop it up with camera work and sound. The idea of a gang of thieves solving a crime is ludicrous. But all this is rendered secondary by Peter Lorre's performance. His performance sets the standard for future depictions of the sociopathic personality. Although playing a most reprehensible character, Lorre succeeds in investing in his character a pathos that preserves his basic humanity. That alone makes this movie worth watching. Rating, entire movie 5, Lorre's performance, 10, 10+5=15/2=7.5 rounded off to next highest number, 8.


                
I usually don't care much for movies as old as this one, since, to me, most of the earlier talkies look just as choppy and mechanical as the silent movies which preceded them. But, this film was very well made and stands the test of time well. Peter Lorre seems to overact a bit, but he may have been directed to do so, or was only practicing the style most actors employed back in those transitional days.


                
This was a difficult film for me to review. It is definitely awakening in its portrayal of vigilante justice, especially in whether vigilante justice is ever acceptable. It also engages with the ideas of insanity and crime. Can a person be exempted from murder if they are insane and not in charge of their actions? This idea is explored brilliantly in the film's final scene. Despite this, I did not enjoy the film as much as I thought I would. It jumped about a lot and the characters were largely forgettable. I wasn't engaged throughout and generally I just felt a bit bored at times.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/WrbGjr


                
This is touted as one of the first great thrillers, but I didn't know what to expect. What is a Weimar Republic-era black and white German proto-suspense film supposed to feel like? I had high- perhaps too high- expectations going into the film, and my faith was mostly rewarded.Let's get one thing out of the way: there are some modern film features that are not present here and may be jarring. The camera-work is nothing special. Some of the shots take so long that I felt myself drifting off to sleep. To some extent, this a problem in almost all pre-Citizen Kane era films, but in this movie, it is particularly noticeable.There is also no orchestral score to speak of. None at all. For the talking scenes, this is not noticeable and actually sort of nice, saying that the dialogue is remarkably well-written. But for the visual scenes- which are the backbone of cinema and what separate it from books- it can be extremely distracting. Often, I just hum my own tunes during the quiet bits and ask others to do the same.Moving past all that, this film is an interesting take on the traditional detective story. Peter Lorre plays a serial killer who targets children. The cops, understandably, try to take him down. But they are as ineffectual as cops can be in a non-comedy movie. They get in each other's way, bother the citizens, decrease business, arrest innocents, and utterly fail to track down Lorre. The crime syndicate also wants to take down Lorre. But unlike the cops, they are effective and efficient.More than once in the film, the cops find syndicate members and detain them. In one hand, they have reason enough to do so, particularly considering the syndicate members have committed some horrible crimes. But on the other hand, they are aggressively stopping Lorre from being brought to justice.Now consider that even if the cops did catch Lorre, he would plead insanity and likely be released from the asylum as harmless within a matter of a few years. This has happened before. Lorre's character can hide his true intentions until he has an opportunity to run wild.This all adds up to an interesting quandary that leads to one of cinema's great endings.When I popped in the film, I expected to be writing a review about its historical significance. That I've spent so much time breaking down the plot and the themes go to show how detailed and well-done those two elements are. It's almost enough to make me forgive the dearth of character moments or good pacing.This film only starts getting good around the halfway mark. Until then, you are left wandering in a much, trying to determine what kind of film this is. This could be viewed as the film not holding your hand and letting you determine yourself how all its elements stick together, but if that is the case, it should have been done in a more dynamic way that did not leave the audience grasping at dull straws for the first half-hour.Know what you're getting into when you pick this up. If you want a musically spectacular, amazingly acted spectacle, this is not for you. But if you're interested in the history of film or you want to see a surprisingly interesting story, check it out.


                
I can't recall I have seen a German feature film from pre-Hitler period... I had read about M but as I am not particularly keen on black-and-white films beyond Chaplin or Lloyd, I did not watch this until yesterday; and I was pleasantly surprised. Good plot where suspense, slapstick and thrill mix, skilled camera work, distinct performances (particularly Peter Lorre as Hans Beckert, Otto Wernicke as Inspector Karl Lohmann) pave the way for enjoyable watching; in addition, you get an overview of lifestyle and practices in Berlin in the end of 1920ies and recognise that love for order among Germans is not just a tag... As for the issues and human approaches, you can realise that there is nothing new under the sun as well - people are and were indifferent, easily manipulated, and revengeful.Great - especially considering the year of release. The ending is a bit over-sophisticated, though.


                
It's difficult to believe this is the man's first sound film. I prefer "Das Testament des Dr. Mabuse" (1933) not only as entertainment but also as an epitome of the exploration of the marriage between sight and sound, but this brilliant, too. The way he ties images and sounds together in a delirious dance makes me feel like I am at the heart of a mystery being unravelled, a symphony unfolding.I know Lang himself considered himself as a "social" director tackling "social" issues. For me his strength lies elsewhere, that is, in the beautiful editing of visually strong images into visually strong narratives. And his use of sound strengthens this: it's quite a marvel to witness how some sounds anticipate certain images and certain images give way to certain sounds.This film is most certainly an inspiration for Béla Tarr's "Werckmeister harmóniák" (2000), and unsurprisingly Tarr voted this as one of the top ten films in the 2012 Sight & Sound poll. There's the same sense of societal paranoia that projects into the black-and-white frame, especially in the crowd scenes.


                
Fritz Lang's M is a recognized masterpiece in film history. Released in the early 30s, it's most remembered for Peter Lorre's chilling performance as a serial child murderer. Lorre's character, Hans Beckert, is a complex one. It requires a certain sadistic yet humanistic approach to it, in which Lorre's expressiveness with his eyes is vital. Without Lorre, M would not have been half as memorable.In my opinion, M fails in the part of narration. It's average storytelling in a too straightforward manner, often deactivating my interest at times. The middle parts are the most painstaking to sit through, but thankfully, the film redeems itself at the end with a conclusion that is likely to stun most viewers. M is essentially a social commentary on 1930s Germany during the Great Depression when most ordinary folks were criminals living on scraps and stolen items. While it doesn't fully capture the mood of that era as well as I expect, Peter Lorre steals the show when it matters most.SCORE: 7.5/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved!


                
Fritz Lang's actually lesser known masterpiece is bedrock for film and society and societal observation/interaction in a post world wars world. After Metropolis' flop at the box office (though massively loved in later years thanks to Superman cartoons and Herr Goebbels) Lang turned to much more naturalistic fare and turned from the overly stylized world of German Expressionism.Though some overt lighting, exaggerated camera angles and a fresh-from- silent-acting Peter Lorre may stage-ify M, its illustration of paranoia in civilization is still cutting edge. M follows the capture of a pedophiliac serial killer; sure it's a cliché to today's CSI and Nancy Grace-drenched audience, but in 1931 it was still pretty chilling. What sets M apart from other psychological thrillers (either then or now) is the focus on fear due to physical violence rather than the violence itself. That is, the only evidence that a small girl is abducted is a symbolic balloon tangling in some electrical wires.Instead, Lang follows an interlaced plot of Berlin's police force and Berlin's criminal force. Due to this especially hateful crime, both sides of the law are out for Hans Beckert (Peter Lorre). This is where the only dating of the film occurs: Fingerprinting seems to be a new fangled invention. This leads us to the idea, and conclusion of the film, that primitive passion is way more effective than coolly cornering a criminal. The mob boss has the bright idea to hire the homeless to track for suspicious characters. Lang interlaces this with coppers rounding up the usual suspects and filling their cells with obviously innocent run-of-the-mill criminals in a giddy blaze of self righteousness. Yep, we never see that little girl again, and the police pretty quickly forget about the mother; the mob boss never cared that there was a mother in the first place. What they don't lose sight of is Peter Lorre and his creepy cum cute chub. A beggar chances on the killer and chases him down. Only here does the title become apparent. The beggar draws a giant "M" in chalk and nonchalantly slaps Beckert's shoulder so all the mob scouts can join in the chase.What ensues is a chase scene shot from above to emphasize a rat maze claustrophobia. The only comic relief in the film comes at this point where the petty criminals act as we would expect a swat team to do. Eventually they ferret him out of a dark and sodden wood hole in the attic and take him down to their world—a cement walled basement! There, they continue their sham of justice (lest we forget that earlier in the film they were being strong armed by the law because they were the only people worth suspecting) with a fair trial. Despite a riveting plea for mercy on Beckert's part (a performance worthy of Charlize Theron's MONSTER or Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal) the "jury" quickly devolves to a mob again, complete with pitchforks.Beckert, coming so close to being sympathetic in the face of this mob, is saved only by the law who breaks in at the last second. Their only ability, the whole movie, is to track normal criminals, and track them they do, just in time to claim credit for the arrest.Statements made by Lang: Pedophiles and murderers suck, but mass paranoia is scarier. Also, Johnny Law is next to useless unless you are committing a crime committed by these five guys over here first.
Fritz Lang directs and co-writes a chilling crime melodrama that will have you not necessarily in suspense as much as anxious. The setting is 1931 Berlin and the top priority of the local police is to find an elusive child murderer Hans Beckert(Peter Lorre). The pursuit of the pedophile uses early fingerprinting and handwriting techniques. The local underworld's "business" is cramped with the cops and their steadfast hunt for the serial killer. The criminals decide to hunt down Beckert themselves to take the heat off their activities. They enlist street beggars to keep a watch out for the killer. Once Beckert is fingered , he becomes a marked man...literally. Will he be caught by Inspector Lohmann's(Otto Wernicke)police force or end up a victim of an underworld kangaroo court?Lorre is tremendous in his first starring role. He aptly conveys the desperation of a cornered man. His facial expressions tell volumes. This will typecast him as a big screen villain for years. If this was translated into English and the subtitles dropped, I would rate this movie higher. But to think a movie this good being filmed in 1931 is amazing. Other players include: Inge Landgut, Ellen Widmann, Paul Kemp, Theodor Loos and Fritz Odemar.
There's an immediacy to this film; there's something that makes Fritz Lang's 1931 film distinctly menacing throughout. Whether it's the distinct intimacy of certain scenes, which take place in enclosed spaces such as underground bars and locked storage rooms; the manipulation of light to create bizarre images and shapes as familiar and somewhat usually unspectacular places are rendered spaces of terror or, indeed, 'uncanny'; the idea that the most powerful 'groups' of characters are additionally the more unlikeable; or just the frank and sheer immediacy of the title, 'M', something in Lang's 1931 picture always seems to just toy with the audience. 'M' is a sublimely taught and somewhat creepy little film that basks in its breaking down of genre convention and thoroughly enjoys its swaying in and out of scenes, elements and subject matter that both thrill and horrify in equal measure.The film was made by a man on a seemingly insatiable run for making movies; some will argue he never made a better one than this. Lang's 1931 piece is so accomplished that watching it decades later, ticking off the influences and ideas spawned because of it borders on a little game within itself; from John Mackenzie's 1980 effort The Long Good Friday, to the much more contemporary and far more reliant on ambiguity and symbolism, Lady Vengeance; Lang's M knows no bounds in terms of levels of influence.The world in which M takes place is a frightening and confusing one; a world in which public hysteria and paranoia grips practically everyone. A world in which a police force are experimenting with new techniques in catching criminals and must venture into this investigation blind; a film in which criminals and organised gangs of criminals feel the need to step to the forefront, thus threatening to take on the role of the protagonists as we will them on in their goals, but it is a drive born out of loss of income that takes control within the minds of those that head the operations, thus placing their actions on a fine line between righteous and ignorant. But above all this, a world in which a child killing individual is made the focus of interest and the sole reason all the hate, confusion and anger is born.M starts in a manner that captures some of what its overall themes will observe. A group of young girls are about to commence a street-set game, and in order to select those first to take part, one member of the group uses a particularly blood thirsty rhyme to 'pick out' a random child. The scene echoes not only what it is the evil within the film indulges in, but highlights a certain juxtaposition that will be prominent later on; in the sense young and innocent girls sing about blood-shed and murder, while supposedly hardened and unlikeable criminals whom run underground bars, are on the hunt to capture a murderer. The notion of evil fighting evil is prominent and Lang plays with this notion when, in what is one of my favourite scenes from the film, the aforementioned killer is trapped in a room and the criminals are closing in – we have to remind ourselves of Lorre's character's past deeds to save wanting him to get out.The film does indeed revolve around Lorre's character; a certain Hans Beckert. The film has no shame in revealing who he is and precisely what he is very early on; this is less-so a detective story posing the question "who's doing it?" as much as it is a film asking how someone can go about being caught and stopped. A lot of the eeriness of Lorre's Beckert comes from the actor's 'patched up' look and expressive face; that child-like expression, that odd look he carries at the most relaxed of times, that worried and juxtaposed sense of excitement and fear that grips him when a net led by mobsters closes in. This is in great credit to the casting of Lorre, in relation to face and figure, and how he himself delivers a performance that gets across a sense of blood-lust, madness and dread at well spaced intervals.The sense of technique and progression in M in relation to capturing the killer acts as one of the film's more interesting diversions. Perhaps acting as a representation of modernity, the police force and their methods of apprehension are shot in stark contrast to how the lower-downs of society go about their business. In this sense, the criminals, who are in it purely out of loss of income, use the lowest of the low in street-dwelling beggars and the homeless to keep a look out for who might be the killer. This cross comparison of new methods, which prove unsuccessful, and 'old fashioned'grounded techniques that prove useful, is interesting. As a film that blurs lines between what is frightening and what it thrilling; who is good and who is evil, and how the clear-cut representation of 'good' in the police force is placed in the background for most a film of this ilk, M is a monstrous triumph. In regards to exploring German cinema from whatever era, be sure to include M as a film to see.


                
I've seen a lot of garbage during my semester of Film Studies, but this film, surprisingly, wasn't half bad. Actually, for todays standards, it is pretty bad. However, compared with any Russian film created at this time, the "M" as the film title should stand for "Masterpiece". This movie is about 1000% more realistic than Battleship Potemkin, therefore, it deserves to be taken seriously.I typically rate my movies based on how frequently i fall asleep during them. And in this film i only fell asleep one time. I give Fritz Lang an A+ on this film. Fritz Lang makes Sergei Eisenstein look like a dumb red-headed step-child. If i had the opportunity to travel backwards in time and decide whether to drop the atom bomb on Hiroshima or on the storage house where every copy of Battleship Potemkin was kept, i would definitely choose the latter.The only advice i would have given Mr. Lang for this film is that he really needs to include some more sweet babes and sweet action. That's all that really needs to be said. Peace out POTRATZ


                
