I just don't understand how this movie can be rated this high on this site. It's generally not that off, but this is ridiculous to have this movie in the top 150 of all time. Just.. no.So let's talk about this movie now. Al Pacino is one of the most overrated actors imho. He did well in The Godfather I&II, and then he lost it. I guess if you would let a barking dog play his role, you could hardly notice the difference. There is no depth to the character, no emotion, no feeling of reality. So that's the good guy.The bad guy is played by de Niro. He plays it "de Niro". Nothing really special. He's played this role many times, and he's gonna play it some more. He was OK.And now, the plot. I'm sorry, but this plot is plain stupid. Just the fight scene in the middle of the street, where Val Kilmer kills at least two dozen cops while taking cross-fire from both sides is a sad thing. All through the movie I had the impression that this shouldn't be happening, that is completely implausible, and so on. Yes! I enjoy movies like the Expendables where you KNOW that you don't have to take anything very seriously, and you are watching for the big guns and the crappy one-liners, and the completely, utterly ridiculous action scenes. But this is different. This movie tries to be about characters development and all, and the action scenes are totally misplaced to my perception.Character development. You have more plausible characters in a Walt Disney movie than here. The ending scene where de Niro goes back to the hotel, whereas it is an apparent trap for some girl, betraying his whole personnality, is laughable. Meaning it's just sad. A guy who is supposed to have respected his own rules for his entire life, and who knows this is what got him this far, just acts completely out of character. And this is one of many.The thing that I really hated about this movie is those moments when I was crying out loud in front of my screen thinking "This can't be true that this should be happening!"I don't recommend this to anyone. That line up is very treacherous, don't be fooled.
What an awful, awful movie. It is twice as long as it needs to be, for what the actual tired story really is. There are soooo many tangling plot lines that are never tied together, and some are frankly quite interesting. Al Pacino's character has an interesting "relationship" with his 3rd wife, and Natalie Portman's character is having severe problems, but she's only in a few scenes and we don't learn what ultimately happens to her.To invest 3 hours in at least a dozen characters and to come away with nothing.....unreal! Even at such a length there are leaps in the action. And I was quite bored. If I hadn't rented it, I would not have sat through the entire thing. If it were on TV, I would have shut it off after a half-hour.There's no doubt the cast is first-class, but they are wasted in one of the most overrated, predictable and boring films I've ever seen.


                
I gave this a 1 MOSTLY because not only is this movie absolutely terrible, but it is absolutely terrible AND nearly 3 hours long.The plot to this movie is completely awful. The synopsis given by IMDb does not even remotely describe this movie. Maybe that's what the screenwriter possibly intended this movie to be about, and it started out that way the first 30 minutes (maybe), but it went in all kinds of directions with a bunch of meaningless plot-lines, meaningless characters, meaningless scenes.The acting, fine. Everything else, why? What were you thinking? Were you thinking? <-THAT kind of bad.We are introduced to several characters and their little lives like they mean something, like they're going to be something. Then they die, or just drop off out of the movie entirely for no reason.Ultimate crime drama? I don't think so. Every criminal in this movie is an idiot. They're sloppy, make amateur mistakes in the first 10 minutes of the movie, and yet it's shoved in your face that "De Niro's character is so clever and smart, always one step ahead". If he's so smart, why hire a new guy in the beginning for a heist that kills someone and nearly screws your heist over? Then as De Niro goes to take care of the problem and kill him, he looks away (without a hold on the guy) and lets him get away? Didn't watch him or hear him? That was in the first 30 minutes.The rest of the movie is just complete trash. We get random scenes of these criminal men with their families and how happy their lives are, but not enough to actually give an attachment to their character. We get random scenes of the detective, Pacino's character, in his little life. There was no point in introducing us to the drama of each of these lives, because none of these characters matter and ALL are cut out at the end with no closure, and no real story to close, besides Pacino and De Niro.By the end of the movie, the "plot" is the struggle between these two conflicting men and their will to do what they want in life. A very dramatic, drawn-out showdown, and De Niro goes down with Pacino holding his hand until his end. How touching. By that time, Pacino's character would have hated him, as De Niro's character shot down his cop friends right in front of him, and De Niro would hate Pacino for killing his friend. So why is there this touching scene where they are now at a closure in their relationship? They met once for coffee.... this supposed epic coffee scene, and talked about how neither would back down to the other. Afterward they killed each others' people and both were raging at the other. De Niro's character can't let a grudge sit (at least this is what the plot would have us believe) and kills everyone that betrayed him without mercy the rest of the movie. But Pacino, this man he met once, is different somehow? If you decide to watch this movie, watch it with much reservation and no expectations.
I was recommended to watch this movie. Now I wonder whether this even is a movie. Is it an insane fantasy? Is it a collection of clichés; the thoughtful gangster and the cool police chef - not to forget all the beautiful women who share the role of the loving wife and girlfriend? Who are the characters that are introduced and suddenly disappear again? Why are we presented with the entire background of the cook/driver who dies within one minute? What is up with the daughter, that tries to kill herself, for no reason whatsoever? Michael Mann has no idea how to create sympathy for his characters, nor does he know how to convey emotions or give insight to the human psyche. The plot is yet endurable, compared to the filmic devices. The cuts are dreadful, unnecessary scenes are emphasized,important scene miss completely, the setting lacks design (Mr.Mann simply wanted to film L.A at night), the dialogue is grotesque and superficial - and does the role of Pacino have a dangerously high blood pressure or why is he permanently swearing and shouting like a prolet? The characters lack depth, especially their relationships are cliché-like and absolutely hollow. Cinematically, the film has no structure, it is a slap in the face. I recommend you to not watch this film, unless you want to have a good laugh with your friends.


                
I saw this film about 10 years ago, when it first open in the UK. I was not impressed. Few days ago I decided to see it again - it took me 4 days to finish it! It is so dull and unnecessary long. I was shocked to read how many people here consider it to be "the best ever film"! Are they nuts?! I think they have no idea what a really great film is about. Someone even thinks it to be "De Niro's best performance". I think it's one of both De Niro's and Pacino's worst performances. Pacino especially is over the top, whereas De Niro is doing his routine, nothing more. The film is full of clichés, constant close-ups like in some TV soap opera, the music is the cliché Hollywood-epic-computer-generated-nonstop noise. All in all - I wasted 6 hours of my life. Don't waste yours, don't watch this movie.


                
This movie is so ridiculous and Al Pacino is so busy screaming all the time, I am constantly stunned by the fact that people seem to like it.The initial robbery requires a level of suspension of disbelief that could only be accomplished by being whacked on the head with a lead pipe - as does a shoot-out in downtown LA. So much of what we see the crooks do just doesn't happen in real life, and this is a movie that seems to be pushing "gritty realism," as opposed to, say, an Arnold Schwarzenegger flick. It is a shame that the bringing together of DeNiro and Pacino is wasted on this overwrought, over-loud, and over-long monstrosity.


                
The film is very unengaging. Frankly I wouldn't have cared if the entired cast had died/ gone to prison/ anything else, really. It felt like it lasted forever. Relationships between the characters were unreal. No idea how this has such a high rating. No idea at all.


                
Spoiler Alert Okay, I am baffled at the amount of the people who are in awe of this film. I, personally, think it's a decent film. That's me... not you. You probably love it (or hate it).. whatever. But, I don't care for it. And here's why:1. When a film is complete fiction and based off of pure bull$hit, like Heat, then I expect an ending that correlates. For example, when I watch a documentary, I don't expect a happy ending, because I expect a documentary to be about a serious topic. When I watch The Godfather, I don't expect a happy ending, because The Godfather is supposed to be serious and in some ways realistic. But with Heat, the writer makes up a bunch of unbelievable crap and then ends the movie pretending to be serious. It's like the writer threw a bunch of bull$hit at you, then was like, "okay, time to take the film seriously!" Here's what I mean: There are several really unbelievable Hollywoodish things that happen. First, a big cop/criminal fight takes place that kills off a whole squad of police. Second, police work is back to normal the next day. Third, DeNiro's character and his buddy who *somehow* manages to survive an entire fleet of L.A.P.D officers (and slaughter them all) get away! Okay, that coooould happen... in a blue moon. But, further, somehow this DeNiro character decides to stick around town to finish old business - right - so these are professional criminals ("the Best!" right?) and they decide to stick around town and settle old business? Yeah right. In reality, those guys would take their money and run if they were "professionals." Fourth, somehow by some odd chance in a million, Pacino's character stumbles in a random hotel room with his stepdaughter... okay, I guess it's just his lucky week. Fifth, after DeNiro's character finishes off that psycho killer guy in his hotel room, he walks outside the room and shuts the door at which point an L.A.P.D officer holds a gun to his head and admonishes him to place his hands in the air... oh, but not this tough criminals. Somehow, this guy manages to backup into the cop's gun then make a 180 turn and knock the gun out of his hand and beat him! Sorry people, but that wouldn't ever happen unless that cop wasn't trained. Cops are trained to shoot when an armed criminal even brushes against them. DeNiro's character would have been dead the moment he touched that cop's gun barrel. But... this is all cool - I don't mind suspension belief when watching a film. What really pisses me off though is that the film has no moral compass. Essentially, two of the bad guys get away. That's bad! If a film is going to pull me through all this bull$hit and make me pretend to believe, then I better have an ending which makes it worth my while. This brings me to problem number 2.2. Two bad guys got away. What kind of message is this film sending? Basically, the writer of this script is allowing justification for a criminal's actions. And for some reason everyone thinks that's cool. So, let me get this straight. Val Kilmer's character manages to kill several cops, destroy an L.A. street block, kill several innocent civilians, rob a bunch of banks and... and... by the end of the film, his skank girl friend (excuse the language) covers for him and he goes free. What's worse, the film tries to act like this is justice. As if we the audience should be smiling and happy that his morally backward girl friend would let this murderer go. What she did was selfish in regard to her son and immoral in regard to the people who this character killed. So, where the hell is the moral justice here? But that's not all. We have Pacino's character feeling sorry for DeNiro's character - how touching. So, this guy kills a bunch of people, but... but... it's his nature, so give him a break. WTF? Where's the justice in that? Basically, we have a film with a bad cop, a bunch of bad guys and no justice. But it seems no one gives a damn about justice at the end of films. People just want to see all of this completely unrealistic action, DeNiro and Pacino holding hands, and a bunch of criminals getting off at the end.I agree, this film probably isn't about justice. It's neither about morals nor ethics. But, don't even try to tell me it's about realism! Heat is NOT realistic. So, what's that leave us with? An unrealistic film that pretends to be real. Why do people like this film? Where's the good ending? Why does Mann write bad guys going free? Wouldn't it have been a lot nicer if Kilmer's character's girl friend would have actually obeyed the law and ratted him out? For God's sake, he killed a bunch of people and her child was on the line. C'mon people.
While this isn't a horrible film; it doesn't belong in the top 250. First of all: it's long. Way to long. It felt like I was actually sitting there for three hours. Good movies will draw you in and let you forget about time during the running length. This movie wasn't good enough to do that. Did they really need all those scenes about Hanna's home life and poor marriage? No. Likewise, was all the screen time with McCauley and his girlfriend necessary? No. It felt like typical movie relationships. The entire movie spent way to much time developing each character and quite frankly it didn't need to.However, there are a lot of great scenes. Including the bank robbery, the shoot-out afterwards, the heist at the beginning of the movie, the diner scene between Hanna and McCauley, and the shoot-out at the drive-in. The acting is top notch. DeNiro and Pacino are great leads. They both portray their characters wonderfully. The rest of the cast was great too. Plus any movie with Danny Trejo is worth seeing.So if not for the overlong running length, I highly recommend seeing it. If you want to see a fast pace heist movie; I'd recommend Heist with Hackman and DeVito. Heist was able to cut the fat and make a great movie. This movie just keeps going and going and going until it finally reaches the end.


                
Everyone got to mug for the camera in the forced dialogue within the forced plot. The "let's get coffee so Deniro and Pacino can be in the same scene" bit was pathetic writing, and Michael Mann obviously was trying to use oddity he learned in film school throughout the film. It was forced, cliche, and painfully disappointing considering the potential the cast brought to the table.


                
This film has long passed its use-by date.On paper, it looks like the best film ever. Al Pacino and Robert De Niro - and IMDb has it safely on its Top 250 - but it is a terrible film. And least of all because of Ashley Judd's multi-coloured leggings.There is nothing to this film. For its length, you'd expect the depth and density of a masterpiece like "The Departed". Instead, what you get is all the character saying the word "heat" over and over, and some very dated action sequences. There are an infinite number of clichés in this film.Clearly it was amazing when it came out in cinemas and people have been clinging to it ever since.


                
I lasted about 90 minutes before turning off this nonsense.What had the makings of a decent cops and robbers film is totally ruined by too much talking, multiple sub plots, and a storyline I was unable to follow.It really ought to be perfectly possible with a decent cast to give us a semi believable and exciting story about robbers being pursued by cops, right? Wrong: What we get is being exposed to the exceedingly soap opera-ish private life of some of the main characters in this film. Boring, boring boring. This movie bears little resemblance to real life and is unrealistic. The picture goes on far too long. I would think it runs into thousands the times we get films about policemen who have families who resent the irregular hours the cop works and the difficulties their jobs cause to their home life etc etc and blah, blah, blah. Who cares.....as most people watch movies to be entertained and not to have to be tortured in viewing the tedious domestic lives of others. Incidentally: A good way to know if a movie is worth watching is to see what the critic Roger Ebert says about it. As a general rule if he raves over a film, then usually it ain't worth seeing. If he says its' not his taste, then take a look!1/10


                
I can't watch this. "Heat" is one of a few highly-regarded movies which I just cannot endure. I've tried to watch it several times but I can never get past the first hour. It's neither a feel-good action movie nor a decent drama. It seems to be aiming for a fresh take on the cops and robbers theme but misses entirely. The characters are deeply unlikeable, the performances are weak, the movie drags like anything and it exhibits no flair or style. "French Connection" is this movie done properly; it has a great performance from Gene Hackman, some excellent supporting characters and some funny scenes to add some warmth to the gritty story. "Heat" has none of these. It is dire.


                
Goodness me! It's De Niro and Pacino in the SAME movie! Goodness Me! I am excited by this! Oh my goodness! Can this be true? Golly gosh goodness me! I must be dreaming! I have laid awake for years dreaming of a feature that contains these two actors. Goodness me! Shame that the actual movie is dull as dishwater. It crawls along like a turtle with leg problems.Still, at least we have De Niro and Pacino together for the first time since they were together the last time. Goodness me! Golly gosh goodness me, in fact.I shall now run around my house declaring a national holiday. I shall call the day 'Goodness Me Day'.We shall all now get down on one knee and proclaim " Goodness Me!" to the wonder of this movie.


                
I really did not like this film much, I did not like the original tv version either. Still I guess I have to admit that it is mildly amusing, I was actually hoping that the De Niro character would get away with it. But setting that aside, the film is like a bad, naive western from the 40's or 50's that's been polished up and has Pacino and De Niro in it.


                
THIS WAS ONE OF THE WORST FILMS I HAVE EVER SEEN IT WAS SO BORING AD IF DRAGGED ON FOR EVER.  HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO DIE FOR GOD SAKES, LAST SCENE.  THERE WERE ONLY 3 DECIENT PARTS TO THE MOVIE.1.THE ROBBERY AT THE BEGINING.2.THE BANK ROBBERY.3. AND THE FIGHT AT THE HOTEL.These 3 parts of the movie lasted about 20 minutes out of a film with a running time of 171 min however it seemed alot longer.Seriously, do not watch this film there was far too much talking and not enough action.


                
This is without doubt the worst remake I have ever seen mainly because the pivotal moment near the end of the film was changed from the original (also by Michael Mann) and totally destroys the point of the film.L A Takedown the original was better acted Alex McArthur was far better than Robert de Niro. In Heat there was far too much dialogue, subtlety went out the window where in L.A. Takedown you knew what they were thinking from their actions, body language,etc in Heat the endless dialogue killed any atmosphere and left nothing to the viewers imagination. The ending was totally pointless and even contradicted the film. If you want a good well acted subtle film about a gang of bank robbers and the cops chasing them watch L.A. Takedown because Michael Mann lost the plot on Heat.


                
This bloated abomination is a total mess. It leaves so many loose ends throughout it's unbearable three hours running time, and then tries tying everything together with an unending climax. All the characters portrayed are either shallow, stupid, or unlikable. It makes it so much more pleasant for the viewer if you have at least one person you give a damn about. "Heat" is a total train wreck as it tries to intertwine a caper film with "Lifetime Channel" touchy feely moments to the detriment of both. My suggestion, if for some unknown reason you are tempted by the star studded cast to watch this, be prepared to live with the fast forward button. Otherwise there goes three hours up in smoke. - MERK


                
Awful. That is exactly what describes this film. I think the main problem with this movie is its desperate attempt to be meaningful, to be some sort of saga. It never is. Why ? Because it moves so slow, and because it is so predictable, and because many of the scenes are just so ridiculous and because the acting is at times so horrible. Imagine being around someone who is ALWAYS reflecting, and always melancholic, it makes you...run ! The lack of humor adds to the dark mood it creates, there is no one in this film to lighten things up. The bank robbery and subsequent shootout are breathtaking, due to really bad dialogue, incoherent action, and thousands of bullets flying without one hitting its target, and without the apparent need to reload. Of course detective Hanna manages to down one of the gangsters who, after apparently taking a head shot, but where is the blood, goes down slowly and controlled, probably because he has a hostage in his arms. The famous coffee scene...did anybody notice that McCauley uttered the exact same words earlier in the movie, in an earlier futile attempt to be meaningful ? Saying the exact same thing twice annihilates its effect. A lot of the violence simply does not make any sense, such as the prostitute being killed in the beginning, what is the point here ? There is something wrong with every single scene in this movie, it is either too slow, the cops are acting too stupid, the action is not credible, and the characters are simply never believable. The lesson to be learned: if you want to create depth, do not ever show it, but show the opposite. Heavy dialogue must be used only very very seldom, this increases its effect by a factor of one million.
DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM, PLEASE. SAVE YOURSELF 3 HOURS.This film is poorly paced, highly implausible, has low quality dialogue, paper thin characters and substandard acting from the headlining actors (Val Kilmer was laughably bad). I don't know what came over the vast majority of people reviewing this film, but this film is not good. It is trash, hot and steamy trash.


                
De Niro and Pacino together for the first time!? Bullshit. This movie was cut together in the editing room. De Niro and Pacino NEVER appear together on screen. They only appear 'together' in two scenes (the diner booth, and the final chase). In the diner you get Pacino's face and the back of De Niro's head, or vice-versa. Not one shot together. Same with the chase at the end. Cut to De Niro, cut to Pacino... then the final shot with Pacino holding De Niro's hand, with De Niro face down. You get stars of this caliber together in a room with camera, you shoot them together.I call SHENANIGANS.
