One of the most amazing things about Heat is the scale of the film; it is nearly three hours long and packed to bursting with mind-blowing visuals. It seems one of Michael Mann's main priorities was to make a film with a dreamlike feel to it, to portray LA as a dusty oil-painting on which complex characters could play out their lives. One of the main themes is the similarity of the career criminal and the street-wise cop. It is fascinating to find yourself really feeling for DeNiro's tragic bank-robber, a man of philosophical merit who realises he's stuck in a life of crime he doesn't want to lead. Pacino's cop is less easy to sympathise with, but he too leads an in-escapable life of guns and crime. What really stands out is the climax. On the whole, Heat has to be the best cops n' robbers film ever made, indeed, one of the best films. An epic, wonderful, sad, adrenaline-fuelled exercise in scale and grandeur.


                
Sound like a bold statement? Devotees of classic cops and robbers flicks of old will no doubt take exception, but I believe that Michael Mann achieved some measure of perfection with Heat. To break this three-hour gem of a film down to its core, this is a film about men - strong men - and the supporting role that he women of the film have on them for better or worse. Take Pacino as good cop Vincent Hanna: one of the most intense characterizations of the tragic hero that I have ever witnessed, as he laments the demise of his third marriage to a pill-junkie wife. A fact which he discusses with his archnemesis (De Niro) in what history will regard as one of the most frenetic scenes in the history of film. The dialogue in this scene (at the very end of the first tape, if you own the VHS version) sets up the last half of the film beautifully, as our two rivals come to the joint realization that they have no hand in choosing the paths that will lead them to their ultimate confrontation: their very natures so define their respective actions that any attempt to do otherwise would simply be a waste of time. While I have heard others (who I am ashamed at times to call close friends) say that Heat drags in places, I will concede that there are moments in the film that require more than the cursory attention that they give to the movie they happen to be watching at any given time (I'm sorry not every director is Jerry Bruckheimer), there are poignant developments of character in Heat that many would casually disregard. I am thinking of the interaction between the ex-con who finds conditional employment in a diner with an opportunistic scum of a boss, and whose girlfriend is so proud of him for swallowing his pride and not simply giving the sonofabitch a good pummeling. But there is a catharsis that I felt for that same ex-con when De Niro's character presents him with the opportunity to take just one more score, for old time's sake. Who doesn't feel for this guy - this minor character in a film with big-time heavyweights who gets to shine for a few brief moments. That's what Heat is really: a series of brief moments, some touching, others traumatic, and still others incredibly horrifying in the feelings that they inspire in the romantic who, like me sees not black or white portrayals of protagonist and villain, but a montage of grays that combine to create a vivid spectrum of film characterization that could not be found in hundreds of films combined. One of my five favorite films of all time, Heat is a cinematic banquet of intense imagery and pulse-pounding action. Come hungry.


                
For some reason I cannot stop thinking about this film lately.You know that feeling of having seen it about 3 or 4 times in the last 12 months is not enough? That's what I feel at the moment.I rate it as Mann's best. It's his most kinetic,vibrant(for a film mostly shot in steely blue),agonising,stirring,brash,violent and brilliance in such a simple story. What games did you play as a young kid? Cops and robbers.Good guy.Bad guy.We all know De Niro and Pacino could have been either main part,but can you imagine it any other way round. Pacino doing ice cool calm? De Niro the manic outbursts,arms flailing? It wouldn't work. We know these men now.We know neither will stop at what they do.And yet there is no way either would stop the other.Unless they had too. Which leads us too the characters. All of them.This is an extended family where you feel you know all of them without knowing anything at all. The cops are similar to the robbers and vice-versa. Perhaps Mann is telling us were all the same.Except in what we do.Every speaking part holds substance in this movie, and the support cast is astonishing when you actually read the caliber of who appeared in this film.Tom Sizmore, Val Kilmer,Ashley Judd,Ted Levine,Wes Studi,Hank Azaria,William Fitchner,Henry Rollins,Dennis Haysbert,Tom Noonan. And Natalie Portman, for chrissake! Try getting that cast again.A real 10/10 film. And that Moby song at the end(God moving over the face of waters) gets me every time.


                
A masterpiece and one of the best action heist movies of all time! Heat (1995) is one of my personal favorite Al Pacino and Robert De Niro Action heist movie of all time! I love this movie to death! This movie has everything, action, drama, heist, great cast and incredible realistic great performance from Al Pacino and Robert De Niro! Provides fast and loose action with interesting characters. Great action movie!!!! One of the best for me!!!!!!!!! To this day this movie stands a classic action heist movie of all time! Acting, story, score everything in here is excellent! This movie has a great plot, brilliant story about two lead characters a professional master thief Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro) battling Lt. Vincent Hanna (Al Pacino) LAPD robbery-homicide detective in this non-stop race against time heist. Michael Mann did everything with this film, he wrote the screenplay, produced this movie and directed it. Michael Mann is a brilliant director I love Miami Vice TV Series, Manhunter and Collateral. This movie is the real heist movie un like Point Break and Baby Driver this movie deserves a 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost perfectly with all the tools that fit the task -- actors and great stunts. Without the vision, this film would be nothing. Without the tools, this film would be nothing.Al Pacino stars in the film as Vincent Hanna, a relentless lieutenant in the LAPD's Robbery Homicide Division who is determined to take down a high end robbery crew led by master thief Neil McCauley (De Niro). Notable for its detailed depiction of the techniques used by both law enforcement and criminal elements, as well as exceptional and accurate gun handling, the film was first made as the 1989 television movie L.A. Takedown. Heat also was reported to have been viewed repeatedly by the "High Incident Bandits" robbery duo involved in the infamous North Hollywood shootout (as depicted in the film 44 Minutes: The North Hollywood Shootout). Lt. Vincent Hanna (Al Pacino) LAPD robbery-homicide detective was a great character cop. He was at least MILES way better than Johnny Utah (Keanu Reeves) FBI rookie Agent in Point Break that movie sucked! Lt. Vincent Hanna shoot and killed Michael Cheritto (Tom Sizemore) and he saved a child. He cracked the case and he figure it out who the mask robbers were. In the climatic epic battle fight on the end of the film on the airport field he shoot and killed Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro). He destroyed and hunt down McCauley's crew. True two got away but he always got his man. He at least didn't let go McCauley like Johnny Utah did, letting go Bodhi (Patrick Swayze) and he did not arrest or shoot or kill any of Bodhi's men he let them all go. Lt. Vincent Hanna is a hero and veteran police officer to me. Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro), as a professional thief was smart, intelligent, high profile criminal with no criminal record. He was the mastermind behind the robberies, he knew what he was doing. He was a murderer and he did what he know best. He at least wasn't like stupid dumb idiot Bodhi from Point Break, he was trying to get away but he always settle a score with everyone that double crossed him. It is wrong to messing with him. By the end that way leaded him to his end, he made a mistake when he went after Waingro (Kevin Gage). The movie has also one of the greatest shootouts in L.A. in which Shiherlis (Val Kilmer), Cheritto (Tom Sizemore) McCauley (Robert De Niro) firing Colt Model 733 automatic riffle on the cops. Great shootout's I love it. The movie has great famous cast: Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Ashley Judd, Mykelti Williamson, Ted Levine, Dennis Haysbert, William Fichtner, Natalie Portman, Tom Noonan, Kevin Gage, Danny Trejo, Hank Azaria, Martin Ferrero and Xander Berkeley a lot of famous actors and actresses were extra in this movie. The movie focus on a real human characters that they are ordinary people with normal life's like you and me. That is why I love this film to death! It is realistic performed and it has no jokes or fantasy or anything it is real life. I love Al Pacino and Robert De Niro's performance they both fit the task and accomplish their acting their characters. Heat is the 1995 crime drama directed by Michael Mann and marked the first on screen pairing of legendary actors Al Pacino and Robert De Niro.10/10 My all time personal favorite action heist masterpiece Michael Mann film of all time, this movie kicks ass.


                
I really believe this is one the great crime movies of all time. It has some drawbacks that wouldn't make me recommend this for family viewing - tons of f- words by Al Pacino and a few bloody scenes, but as far as a fascinating crime story: wow!This movie made modern-day history because it was the first time two of the great actors of this generation - Pacino and Robert De Niro - finally acted together in the same film. Those two didn't disappoint, either. They were great to watch and one of the huge highlights of the film, to me, was when they faced each other in a simple conversation over a cup of coffee. That conversation has always fascinated me, no matter how many times I've heard it. It was such a "landmark" scene that It's even the subject of a short documentary on the special-edition DVD.As with the conversation scene, the shootout segment in the streets of Los Angeles still astounds me no matter how many times I see it. The other action scenes are intense and memorable, too, and the cast in here is deep. This isn't just Pacino and De Niro. It's Val Kilmer, Ashley Judd, Jon Voight, Diana Venora, Natlie Portman, Tom Sizemore, Amy Brenamann, Wes Studi, Ted Levine, Mykelti Williamson, on and on. Put that fabulous cast under Michael Mann, one of the best directors in business, add a great soundtrack and interesting camera-work and you have a great film. At three hours long, it never bores one and at same time, doesn't overdo the action, either. I read one critic criticize this film because of the time taken to examine the personal lives of the main characters, but you can't have three hours of nothing but action. The only scene I felt went on a bit too long was the ending chase at the airport, but that's nitpicking considering the film as a whole.This is just one of those movies where a great cast and director live up to their billing.


                
In this exciting thrill ride, good and evil battle it out.  But not in the usual comic-book style of most films today.  "Heat" carries with it the moral values so many of us take for granted.  Although much in the film is morally ambiguous, one may find that even when all your life you've lived on the other side of the law, you can still settle down and have a heart-to-heart.  When I first saw this movie I was sure it would be another violent crime movie that I would never want to see again.  I have since seen it 4 times and have a copy of my own.  The thrilling sequences and brilliant camera-work have you glued to the screen.  The exceptional cast of characters has you wondering "who could be so lucky to work with them?". From the opening scene to the thrilling final scenes and everything in between (including the climax) "Heat" grabs you and pulls you in.  This is a true film masterpiece.


                
Most of the comments I've read here agree that this is a great movie. I have the same opinion. The coffee shop scene tells everything about this film: 10/10. The human side of the characters is perfectly explored, especially concerning De Niro's character (Neil). His personal conflicts are as strong as his determination and skills as a gangster. This is the magic of this film and only two fantastic actors like Pacino and De Niro could represent it so totally. Congratulations to Val Kilmer that shined and performed exceptionally well under the huge shadow of Pacino and De Niro. A must see !


                
Heat is a masterful cops and robbers tale that shows both sides of the law in exquisite detail.  Strong performances by Pacino and DeNiro (the scene of them sitting across the table from each other is possibly 5 of the most memorable minutes in film history).  Excellent cinematography and perhaps the best gunfight (if not, one of the most intense) since Hard Boiled. More than worth the 3 or so hours.


                
I am assuming I am commenting on this film for those who have not seen this film and for those people I pity you. Its a crime thriller. Won't describe the story as its not particularly original and not the best thing about this film. You've got Pacino and Deniro on screen in a film for the first and possibly last time which should be recommendation enough. You've also got director Michael Mann at the top of his game. An awesome supporting cast firing on all cylinders. Arguably the best "shoot-out" in any film - ever. What more do you want???It's a long film but there is not one wasted scene in it. Even the incidental story lines - for example, the recently paroled ex-cell mate of Deniro whose first job is in a "grill" working for a nasty, exploitative boss and then ends-up as a stand-in getaway driver for Deniros crew. It just adds weight to the whole film. All the domestic dramas of the good-guys and the bad-guys that you wouldn't get in the typical cops and robbers film are shown in loving detail and nothing is rushed. Just makes it a more satisfying and involving film.Mann who started his career on Miami Vice almost seems to be taking a trip back to the eighties with the soundtrack and styling of the film - almost but not quite. If you still don't want to see the film after this then what the hell's wrong with you?! Sit back and enjoy. Also - no. 247 in the top 250?? Whats up with that???


                
Why is Heat such a great movie? Is it because of the breathtaking amalgamation of story, music, image, action and acting that makes every scene worth watching over and over again? The authenticity of the world of cops and robbers he portrays? The acting of Pacino and De Niro? I have watched the movie at least twenty times. So have many others on the forum. Why the fascination?You can look at a masterwork by Rembrandt or Michelangelo endlessly and enjoy the beauty, the figures, the colors, the light<U+0085> And many of us do. But once you 'get' what the work of art is all about, once you connect it to the great themes in life, one's own life, it becomes deeply touching. Often what it's all about is deeply buried in layers upon layers of craftsmanship and sheer beauty. One becomes fascinated, one feels strong emotions, but one has to dig deep to explain why. The greater the mastery of the artist, the deeper one has to dig. The richer the treasures deep beneath the surface. So Michael Mann's mastery, for all its perfection, is only underpinning something of a higher order.In fact Heat has exactly the same essence as Ali, The Insider, Last of the Mohicans, Collateral and Thief. These movies, although superficially very different, are really quite similar in their core. They are all about making life-changing choices between different loyalties. Ultimate dilemmas. Heat is the most complex of all these movies in this respect and therefore in my opinion the greatest.What makes Mann's characters so fascinating? They rise to the occasion when facing 'heat': extremely adverse and often violent circumstances. They all face dilemmas, life-changing choices. They need to do the right thing, no matter how slim the chance of success, knowing they have to give up something else which is a good thing too. Vincent Hanna is not simply a workaholic. He gives up life as most of us know it (marriage, caring for his stepdaughter, 'barbeques and ballgames') because he knows he is such a gifted policeman that he can put away criminals behind bars, who will otherwise keep on killing the innocent people that haunt him in his dreams. But he can only defeat his adversaries if he is dedicated at the moments of truth. And he suffers for his dedication in all other realms of life. Neil McCauley forgoes normal life as well to be a perfect criminal and never be returned to jail, but starts feeling the cost of that only after falling in love, against his principles. He knows he can only stay out of jail when not attached to anyone or anything. (Therefore his home isn't even furnished.) To him that is the right thing to do. See, the values of Mann's characters are not necessarily 'right' or absolute values. Criminals have values too and their dilemmas can be just as difficult. After falling in love he feels a dilemma. And becomes much more human, albeit on the other side of the law.Why are some of the truly evil characters in Mann's movies so utterly evil? Because they are dedicated, but don't see the dilemma. They have chosen for their own ego, and pursue at any cost whatever drive they have, usually power and money (Van Zant, Insider's Thomas Sandefur, Thief's Leo), but alternatively perverse violence (Waingro) or revenge (Mohicans' Magua). They, directly or indirectly provide the 'heat' that make the more sympathetic characters have to choose whatever they think is 'the right thing'.Heat is stuffed with life-changing choices. Once you pay attention, it seems as if almost every other line in the movie has a question mark attached to it. 'Check, charge or cash?', are the first words in the movie. Not exactly life changing, OK, but a hint of all the choices to come . 'You taking me to breakfast?' follows shortly afterward. Less trivial. Then, every character is faced with choices between loyalties. All the most memorable moments in the film are about choices. Often very complex dilemmas. Charlene Shiherlis first chooses to betray her husband Chris to secure her son's future, but then when given the chance saves Chris's ass at the cost of probably never seeing him again. Neil drives through the tunnel with Eady on his way to freedom and ponders the idea to return and kill Waingro. De Niro's face shows the dilemma between loyalty one: getting away with his love, and loyalty two: revenge for Waingro's actions which have devastated his crew, with Chris wounded and on the run, Michael killed by Hanna in the shootout, Trejo tortured and mortally wounded (being subsequently put out of his misery by Neil himself) and Trejo's wife Anna violated and murdered. Neil simply cannot walk away from that. He calculates he can avenge his crew and get away afterward. But we later learn the presence of Eady at the hotel where Waingro is finished off, puts Hanna on Neil's tail for the final confrontation.In short, Mann's movies teach us: doing the right thing isn't straightforward. The choices in life aren't obvious.To do the right thing, you will have to give up what is good too and feel great loss. Doing the right thing doesn't result in a happy ending. You will feel vindicated at best. You may even die in the process.'I told you I was never going back'.
There is so much more to Heat than whats on its surface. It is so well directed, acted,written, scored and photographed that it takes mulitple viewings to take it all in. This is the best crime movie ever made. And, since my first viewing over 5 years ago, I have seen it a countless number of times. After all of these viewings I can only say that this is my favorite film to watch and therefore the best film I have ever seen. I will not divulge into plot because the expanse and depth of the films story, I could not do justice with a shorthand overview of its plot. This film is not about its plot, it is about its characters and what they feel. Michael Mann is my favorite filmmaker, his list of credits, admittedly, doesn't strike many people as the resume of the greatest living director, but when you watch those films you can see the gift this man possesses at telling a story and making us feel for his characters. There are three scenes in this movie that had me so drawn in, I still think about them often. One is the films first scene, Elliot Goldenthal's mesmirizing electronic score captivates us in the first shots of the train carrying Neal McCauley (Robert DeNiro)and leave me, and the audience wanting more. The third comes toward the end as McCauley and his boss Nate (a wonderful Jon Voigt) exchange their last words as Neal is planning on leaving the country the words the choose and attitudes they strike almost had me in tears. These are two hard men and this is far as they will go with their heartfelt goodbyes. The films last scene I will not give a description to as not to ruin the plot for you. I contains the best (almost) wordless exchange I've ever seen in a film. The music swells and Mann allows us to linger on the last shot. It brought me to tears, and still does. This is the best film I've ever seen. I doubt you will see it that way, but trust me you will love it.


                
Some people say this movie takes too much time to show the conclusion,which is predictable. As for me,that opinion is nothing. Everything about this movie is perfect. The time length makes this movie great. It's spectacular. The action scenes are great. The characters are great. The way of showing them is great. This movie is worth watching over and over. One of the best movies I've ever seen.


                
I used to love this film for the action sequences and that beautiful blue-tinted cinematography, Los Angeles looking as clear and smooth as the ocean Neil looks out on in reflection. De Niro and Pacino fully inhabit characters that are two sides of a coin, Neil (De Niro) an introverted loner and a professional thief in charge of a crew, and Vincent (Pacino) a disillusioned cop who finds a connection with Neil, who he likes and considers a star, reflecting his own professional, no- nonsense approach, a glimmer of hope in an otherwise dreary career in which he must expose himself to all kinds of horror and sickness which he goes into great detail describing in order to stop his partner from complaining about relationship problems. Pacino has some of the best and funniest line in the whole film. It was a stroke of brilliance to have both De Niro and Pacino play characters perfectly suited for them. Pacino is often accused of hamming it up, and although he does chew scenery in this film, that's the character he plays and I always found him a very subtle actor whose expressions speak volumes. De Niro of course is brilliant, that goes without say, and plays a likable crook who has found his niche on the other side of the law and does what he does best. Any attachments they have don't seem to work, and the only real bond they find is with each other through their mutual cat-and-mouse interest in one another. The film isn't just about those two characters though, and while it is a crime film, that's just a foundation for a sprawling, meticulously detailed yet effortless, interwoven narrative involving many people. The way it all comes together as the film progresses feels almost cosmic. Waingro (Kevin Kage) is sort of a spanner in the works throughout the film, a sort of devil of chaos with no awareness of what he's doing (?) who shoots cops in the opening heist and gets Vincent involved in the case and on the trail of Neil. He vanishes almost supernaturally when Neil tried to kill him and pops up in multiple uncanny ways to botch things up for his old crew and his new employer Van Sant (William Fichtner). He even manages to bring Neil and Vincent together in the end by being the chief motivator for Neil's detour from his escape to a new haven after the disastrous heist. Neil kills Waingro in a sort of cathartic cleansing, before being hunted down by Vincent and shot in the final hunt. They both kind of save each other in the end and it turns out the way Neil wanted it. It was his wish all along to die at the hands of this cop who knows him as well as he does, and it gives him a sort of release for the afterlife. I guess that makes Vincent, his hunter, his Shepherd. It's a moving ending to a great film, and the final scenes of Vincent holding Neil by the hand in his last moments as they stand in the night against the airport lights, the plane to a life Neil was never allowed departed and his downfall as it illuminates his shadow giving Vincent his cue to take Neil down, are all just perfect. It all feels very fatalistic in a profound way. The film is a great noir because it's all about purpose and the search for it. The supporting cast is also great, after all it's an ensemble film and there's a whole host of interesting, well played characters I haven't even mentioned because I can't be bothered now.
After watching this film for what seems the 100th time - I have come to the conclusion that it is truly a masterpiece crime drama.Mann has done so many good films, in different genres, like Last of the Mohicans, Manhunter, Collateral, The Insider, Thief - and yet this film stands head and shoulders above the others. Truly epic is scale, the tale of Cop and Thief is explored to its max, and is executed with extreme flair.De Niro and Pacino are top of their game - this being De Niro's last great role (along with the fantastic Casino). Both play their roles with precision - and when they finally meet (in the diner scene) both excel, neither putting an end to the "who is better" stakes. Pacino and his mouthy, yet troubled cop and De Niro's syntax-troubled thief make for one of the greatest duels in crime cinema history.Yet it is the fantastic team of supporting actors who help the main stars keep their balance. Val Kilmer, Natalie Portman, Diane Venora - only to mention a few - are fantastic.Heat is a modern noir, the urban Gothic, with stark sky's, hauntingly human snyth and a bruised L.A landscape. Mann has created such a deep film, that I can't express how much it means to me. Drama is great, acting is great and the action is superb (the heist scene to end all heist scenes) - so this film is the jewel in Mann's crown - and a benchmark for other films in the genre.


                
I know millions probably "commented" on this film but I feel a weird urge to do so myself.This movie is actually "Perfect" it is virtually impossible to make it any better. I remember seeing this in theaters, not some Hollywood screening or fest or anything like that. I have never seen a movie where people applauded while the movie was in progress.I often describe this film to people who people who tell me they never saw it, after recovering a from a near heart attack from shock, that its a Action film so good you cant believe that its a drama while at the same time it is a Drama film so good you cant believe it is an action film.I've seen it 10 times and there are those moments where I still hold my breath in suspense along side with the characters when they reach those 'moments'. Kind of hard to try and not spoil the movie so I will do my best, when you see it you'll know what Im talking about.If you haven't seen it, I am so jealous as I would love to see it through the first timers eyes again!


                
Director Michael delivers one of the best thrillers of the last few decades with Heat. A movie that came out in 1995 and continues to influence every heist movie that has come after it. I have yet to witness a heist movie that even comes close to the greatness of this slick thriller of a movie. Robert De Niro's Neil McCauley and Al Pacino's Vincent Hanna are riveting to watch. Val Kilmer's extremely cool Chris shiherlis steals the show in some of the movies greatest action scenes. The city of L.A is also captured beautifully; whether it is a heart-racing gun fight on the streets of L.A or a conversation between two guys in restaurant, the city of angels feels like a character of its own.
Thanks to memorable performances, gorgeous cinematography, insane action sequences and a great plot, Heat is the king of its genre and also one of the greatest movies of all time.


                
"Heat", much more than a typical crime drama, is a character-driven masterpiece of writing and a film so riveting and fascinating that one cannot take his or her eyes off the film for one second without possibly missing a masterful shot or a fine bit of character development. If the film's intelligent, appropriately 'epic', character-driven screenplay wasn't enough to make this a great film, then surely Mann's brilliant direction, Dante Spinotti's photography, and Elliot Goldenthal's memorable score make this a great film.Of course, the big selling point for "Heat" to this day is the union of screen legends Robert De Niro and Al Pacino. I am not certain whether the film's excellent screenplay was written by Mann with these two actors in mind, but it doesn't feel like it because it does not feel for a second like a cheap marketing gimmick, and the two actors actually share very little screen time together (for the first time, as despite both of them appearing in "The Godfather: Part II", they were not in any scenes together). When they do, it is tasteful and interesting. The scene in the diner where they first really meet, not counting a quick encounter on the street just before, is perhaps the true centerpiece of the film, even more so than the famed shootout. In that short, beautiful scene the two main characters discover just how similar to and yet different from each other they are. The film is brilliantly. It is around three hours in length, but passes faster than most 90 minute films. The film masterfully builds tension while developing characters in its early stages in what some might call subplots, which is entirely missing the point of this film being driven by the characters rather than strictly by the plot. The film has a loose 'main' plot, but is a true epic, one which concentrates on many different characters and stories in almost equal measure. It builds up to a climax which lasts for an entire hour, a riveting, spectacular, epic, brilliant hour of film that begins with the shootout. Oh, the great, famous "Heat" shootout in the middle of the street in broad daylight. My opinion may be blasphemy to some, but I think this is one of the best and most exciting scenes in film history. It's as well-shot and edited as any of cinema's most well-known action scenes.The immediate thing that stands out about the visual look of the film is how carefully and beautifully composed some of the shots are, the prime example being the film's stunning final shot (which follows an equally astonishing final sequence), which is certainly up there with the great final shots in cinema. The film's look cannot be credited entirely to Mann, as frequent Mann collaborator (The Last of the Mohicans, The Insider) Dante Spinotti's work as cinematographer is certainly impressive as well. This cast is certainly much bigger than Pacino and De Niro, and I can't think of one performance, not even Jon Voight's that can be called anything less than excellent. From Val Kilmer to Tom Sizemore to Ted Levine to Ashley Judd, the supporting cast is terrific. Even Natalie Portman's good."Heat" is a masterclass. The writing, direction, cinematography, acting, everything about the film is great from start to finish. Truly a brilliant film, and one that will not be forgotten anytime soon. It doesn't work because it is a good crime thriller, it works because it's a terrific character drama, one which I find more and more involving with every viewing.


                
A few days ago I finally got around to watching the much regarded 1995 'cops and robbers' movie, "Heat." I'm not a particular fan of this genre unless it is really well done, but Heat has been on my list of 'Movies to watch' for quite a while. It received high praise from most critics and seemed to have some excellent credentialsLet's face it, a movie starring Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, (two of my all-time favourite actors), along with John Voight, Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, Ashley Judd, Natalie Portman and many, many more, could hardly fail. And it didn't – even more so as it was in the hands of one of the masters of the genre, Michael Mann, who wrote and directed it.The film is a whopping 2 hours 46 minutes, but the time just flew by, leaving me begging for more. Heat is undoubtedly one the definitive films of any era and although it was made twenty years ago, it hasn't dated at all and is still eminently watchable. Okay, the cell phones may have been a little on the large side, but that aside, this movie could have been made last year.Al Pacino as the hard-bitten cop on a mission and whose personal life is falling apart, and Robert De Niro – the tough, no-nonsense criminal genius – both play their parts to perfection. These two towering figures of the silver screen are only seen together in two scenes.The first meeting is about half way through the movie, when they enjoy a cup of coffee together. This is a classic confrontation between 'good and evil'; with both of them acknowledging the unstoppable forces that drive them to do what they do. They even have a grudging respect for each other – given the different paths they have chosen in life.The second time they meet is at the end of the movie when we watch the denouement of these two mesmerizing characters played out to the bitter end.Pacino and De Niro are totally 'on song' in this film and Mann has written their parts in a way that allows them to excel in what they do best. The supporting cast, with the likes of Kilmer and Voight (both villains), are a joy to behold and the movie is acted by an ensemble of actors that was taken from the best that Hollywood had to offer in the mid - 90's.Of course, with Mann directing, there is plenty of violence, and a seemingly never-ending shoot-out scene ranks right up there with some of the greatest shoot-outs of all time. To say any more about Heat would spoil the movie for those who haven't yet seen it.Even if you have, it is well worth another looksie after all these years. Go get the DVD or download it. You will NOT be disappointed.
Heat is written and directed by Michael Mann. It stars Robert DeNiro, Al Pacino, Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Diane Venora, Ashley Judd, Amy Brennerman and Danny Trejo. Music is scored by Elliot Goldenthal and cinematography by Dante Spinoti.Big time thief Neil McCauley (DeNiro) is after one last major score before he retires, but hot on his tail is Vincent Hannah (Pacino), a cop equally and methodically as driven as he is himself.In the build up to Heat's release, much was made of it being the first on screen pairing of DeNiro and Pacino. A mouthwatering prospect for sure, it proved to be worth the wait and unfolds as a lesson in restrained acting with two modern greats affording each other the respect that was due. What we didn't realise in the build up to the film's release, was that it would prove to be one of the greatest cops and robbers movies of all time, brought to us by an auteur director whose kink for realism and commitment to research stands him out from much of the modern directing pack.Rarely does a film come together as one, where all the cogs of the engine are in tune, but Heat is one such picture. From cast performances to visual aesthetics, to screenplay and actual substance of story, Heat is as meticulous as it is thrilling. There are a myriad of characters brilliantly stitched together in one de-glamorised City of Angels, as plot develops, and each character and their crumbling relationships come under inspection, we are witnessing a coarse viewpoint of human nature, where people's lives are ended or defined by their choices. Everywhere you look, here, there are folk cracking under the strain of being exposed to high end crime, dreams, hopes and happiness are unlikely to be achieved, and this is on both sides of the law.For Heat, Mann fuses the tonal and visual ticks of Manhunter with that of the adrenalin rushes from Last of the Mohicans, with the former gorgeously born out by Spinoti's pin sharp photography, the latter thrillingly realised by Mann's skill at action set pieces. Once again word of mouth about the key heist and shoot out in the film led to high expectation, and again there is no disappointment. L.A. becomes a battle ground, rapid gunfire punctures the air, cars swerve and crash, bodies fall, visually and aurally it drags you to the edge of your seat, an extended action sequence fit to sit with the best of them. The kicker as well is that because Mann has been so detailed in his characterisations, we care about what happens to all parties, we understand motives and means. Which in a film with such a huge support cast is quite an achievement.There is enough in Heat to fill out a dozen other cops and robbers films, fans of neo-noir and crime films in general are spoilt supreme here. It's not rocket science really, put a group of great actors together, give them an intelligent script to work from and let them be guided by a director who will not sit still, and you get a great film. Heat, the ultimate predator and prey movie, where from beginning to end it refuses to be lazy or cop out, and energy and thought seeps from every frame. 10/10


                
As a long time fan of Heat I keep getting amazed every time I see it. No other crime movie has ever taken the time to build up every character so thoroughly. Even the ultimate bad guy Waingro is not just a shallow character communicating with corny one-liners. Actually so much of the depth of the characters come out through subtle facial expressions, e.g. Diane Venora when Pacino leaves her at the hospital (the camera lingers long enough for her posture to speak a thousand words) Ashley Judd in the couch after signaling to her husband...I hold my breath with her and almost faint every time I see that scene. For gun buffs you gotta love the sound effects of gun fire. For once guns are really loud and not like most movies where people talk calmly to each other while firing guns.The fact that no judgment is passed on the criminal crew or the cops is simply superb. There are no "good guys" and "badguys" here only complete characters.This is a remake of Mann's earlier L.A. Takedown. A much improved version that is, and I can see why Mann wanted to do this story right. Another thing I love is that Mann pays homage to "that other great crime movie" Bullitt. This is apparent in the very end of the movie during the airport chase, a scene that also concludes Bullitt.If Stanley kubric is the master of natural light, then Michael Mann must be the master of artificial and post-processed light. The visual side of Heat is absolutely STUNNING and the soundtrack work in perfect harmony with the images. Ladies and gentlemen, this is art!


                
Five years ago to this date, I was pretty tired from working all day at my job at the cinema.  However, I did manage to stay awake for a almost three hour epic that blew my mind away and saw a different way to look at the cinema.  Before this film, the director Michael Mann, has shown the life of crime in THIEF, terror in THE KEEP, suspense in MANHUNTER, and a historical epic with LAST OF THE MOHICIANS.  But Mann's film were going on a upswing, and with HEAT, Mann reached peak level. This is a film that will go down in history.  Granted, it's not as much as a classic as SCHINDLER'S LIST and GOODFELLAS.  But HEAT will give future generations a example of what the world and life style was like in the 1990's.  Where NASHVILLE is for the 70's, and film by John Hughes is for the 80's, HEAT is for the 90's.While living in central Los Angeles for over three months, the images and scenes from HEAT couldn't leave my mind.  Mann did a fabulous job by shooting the film on the actual streets of L.A.  The film shows the dark and gritty world where we are use to the palm trees and beaches.  Mann's L.A. has some fancy art deco buildings mixed in with decaying buildings.  The streets of Koreatown where all the signs are in Korean, the run down coffee shop that is hidden among giant skyscrapers. If anyone wants to know what L.A. really looks like, this is the perfect film that shows the viewer the real world of L.A. There's the brilliant plot.  Some would say that it's a remake of Mann's eariler work, L.A. TAKEDOWN. But Mann took a simple story and turned it into a epic, and that is exactly what HEAT is, a epic.  Multiple characters, multiple stories, different conflicts and situations and adding a blend of fantastic action into it.  I love the way the characters and story works.  Al Pacino playing Vincent Hannah, the lead detective who is tracking down a group of professional thiefs led by Neil McCauley played by Robert DeNiro.  Unlike any other crime-action film that I have seen, HEAT has both the police officers and criminals being highly intelligent!  No bad doughnut jokes, no bumbling crooks, no "I'm getting too old for this" lines, etc.  The thieves use clever plans to stage and work out a robbery, while the officers use clever actions to identify and gather evidence of the criminals. The look by Dante Spinotti is beautiful.  The L.A. skyline with his famous tint shade of blue makes L.A. look like a million stars in the sky. His shots of the empty apartment that McCauley owes with the Pacific Ocean in the background.  The music by Elliot Goldenthal is also fantastic, it has a techno beat that adds to the suspense and excitement that the film is showing.  But it's the score by famous artist Moby that rises above the rest of the film's music.  With Hannah speeding down Interstate 5 while "New Dawn Fades" is blasting on the soundtrack, and the magical and beautiful "God Moving Over the Face of Waters" being played at the ending credits.  Moby was quoted recently that "God Moving" is his favourite song that he has composed, he says that it brings tears to his eyes whenever he hears it. While I listen to it, the song gives me goosebumps and I can not think of the blue Pacific Ocean with the lights from the L.A. coast. And should I mention the acting, which is the best casting in the history of film.  Not only do you have two of the best actors working right now, DeNiro and Pacino, but here is a small list of who else is in this classic:  Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Diane Verona, Amy Brenneman, Ashley Judd, Mykelti Williamson, Wes Studi, Dennis Haysbert, Hank Azaria, William Fichtner, Henry Rollins, and Natalie Portman.  If you're going to have two fantastic actors in the lead roles, then you need to have a strong supportive cast with them, and that is what Mann does.  But it's Pacino's and DeNiro's performances are the strong stand-outs.  The scene where Hannah and McCauley are sitting down at a table in a coffee shop is of equal rank as Moses parting the Red Sea in TEN COMMANDMENTS.  Or Indiana Jones running away from the giant boulder in RAIDERS. Yes, these are bold statements to say, but if you have ever been to Los Angeles, you would understand.  And I don't mean the tourist city of Anaheim, I mean the real streets of L.A.  COLORS and BOYZ N' THE HOOD do show a pretty realistic L.A., but it's HEAT that shows the real Los Angeles. This is a film that when you first see it, it's good, but the more you watch it, the more you love it.  That is why I an not going to say to just see this film, but you should buy this film!  Believe me, for the last four years, I've been buying this movie on video or DVD for friends of mine. It's become my own personal chain letter, and every time I give them the movie, they come back telling me they loved it.  Please do yourself a favour, and see this film that is the ultimate image of the last decade of the 20th century. ***** (one of the top 10 films of all time!!!!)


                
I'm not going to take up much time. This film is the reason why movies are made. Entertaining to its core. The ending sucked for me because I didn't want it to happen that way, but that was all because of the characterizations of the protagonists (Yes, there are two protagonists in this movie). Unbelievable. Go watch it (again).


                
Who on earth would not give this one a perfect 10/10 rating is just beyond me?! I mean the cast, acting, script, directing, plot...whatever is just superb! I for one will enjoy this one again and again...not to mention I watched it in a movie-theater when it came out 23 years ago !


                
This review includes some soft spoilers about the relationships between the characters and some detailed explanation of the synopsis. It is more focused on my sentimental impressions and I do not think it spoils any fun you will possibly have by watching this film.
It's been 4 years since I watched it so i may not remember the vivid details but i clearly remember De Niro's stoic appearence; Sizemore,why can't we see him anymore?; Val Kilmer's 15 minute period of handsomeness in some time 90s and that neo-Nazi Waingro.
It was one of the movies that showed a well-thought action which was fairly new in Hollywood. Actually, action widely meant trade of blows between the protagonist and any henchmen until script demands to continue in that era until there were some attempts to be more detailed like Top Gun with the flight sequences and unfortunately i cannot think of any other example right now. The heist scenes were detailed, organized, and easy to follow to entertain and enjoy them. I like to watch complex and planned things portrayed realistically and any film that manages to do that will be loved and maybe be fanboyed by me.
Wasn't exactly a fan of Al Pacino's overacting but loved the dynamic between him and De Niro. That was the only thing i may criticise but not enough to drop a point.
As i told before loved De Niro's stoic appearance and loved his relationship with the woman. It was beautiful and moving in a film with cold-hearted nature.
Many told it was one of the influences of Dark Knight in its portrayal of heists and in its no-nonsense, never even grinning manner(except Joker). It is a great film to be taken example.
In conclusion, do not be afraid of its running time and watch some skills of this wonderful cast and Michael Mann.


                
With Robert Dinero, Al Pachino, Jon Voight and Val Kilmer headlining this movie, Heat is an intense police crime drama which capitalizes on its great screenplay, acting, production and directing. Many police dramas, particularly those of this era, have well developed story lines which fully engage the viewer in the main plot as well as the lives of the main characters. Although, at its core, Heat is a cops and robbers movie, what makes it special is the intensity of the dysfunctional personal relationships which Pachino, Dinero and Kilmer have with the women in their lives, and the cat and mouse game play between Pachino, the L.A. Police Lieutenant brining the "heat" to Dinero and his team of technically proficient and professional bank robbers. 
The movie starts, not with a bank heist, but with the heist of bearer bonds from an armored car which results in the death of three guards raising the stakes of the crime from that of armed robbery to homicide for all parties concerned and putting Pachino on their trail. But less about bank robbing and more about the lives of Dinero and Pachino, one of the movies high drama points is when their cat and mouse game results in their meeting over a cup of coffee in a diner. During this meetin Pachino recounts Dinero's criminal resume and stays in the penitentiary, to which Dinero states that he's, "not going back." The two also speak candidly about what they each do in terms of chosen professions and how neither of them lives the regular life of "barbeques and ball games," and healthy relationship, and that this is the life they prefer. During this meeting the men share common perspectives on how they feel about what they do, and what they will have to do, even to each other, if it comes to that point. And we know, this point is coming. This scene demonstrates just how good these actors have perfected their crafts, as they convince the viewer that adversaries can have mutual respect for one another.
Heat follows the same pattern of many movies of this type, where we know how this is going to end - in the game of cops and robbers, the cops always win, and the robbers always make mistakes, errors in judgement and betray each other for any number of reasons. In the law and order aspect of the film there are casualties on both sides. But it is the casualties, drama and betrayal in the personal lives of the characters which keeps us glued to our seats. 
As the movie reaches a climax, we see the wreckage coming. Pachino is in pursuit, even as his wife cheats on him and his step daughter attempts to commit suicide. Kilmer's wife seeks to sell him out to the LAPD, and changes her mind, and Dinero who in the process of escaping with his love interest must make a detour to kill one last person who betrayed him. This unplanned, undisciplined reckless and impulsive act we know will lead to Dinero's undoing, as his execution results in police, fire descending upon his location and him leaving the scene of foot with his love interest watching him take off.
The closing scene is a foot chase between cop and robber as Dinero attempts to get to the airport to make meet his connection and make his getaway. The airport scene is unremarkable, as the chase ends with Pachino shooting Dinero. As Dinero lay dying on the ground, Pachino grabs Dinero's hand as Dinero tells him, "I told you I'm not going back," to which Pachino replies, "yeah."
If you like classic crime dramas, without all the special effects, shiny objects, stunts and computer graphics, "Heat" is for you. Make no mistake about it. As entertaining as "Heat" is it is a film of human tragedy. It is the wreckage of human relationships where women pay a significant price for loving the men that they love. It is hard not to feel a women's pain as it front and center in almost every interaction.
