This movie was good.  I loved the gun fight scene in Downtown LA and Neil's last confrontation with Waingro.  This must've been my fourth time watching it and I still enjoy watching those two scenes. However, much of the rest of the movie could've been edited out. I always thought it ran a little long.  Also, I thought the dialogue could've been better.  Am I alone on this?  Everyone seems to praise this movie as one of the best they've seen.  Am I the only one who thinks the sub-plots, especially those involving the characters' personal lives could've been shortened or eliminated altogether?  And that the dialogue was weak, even during that coffee shop scene?  The pacing was slow and, except for a few scenes, the movie was boring.  The movie was basically a few great scenes strung together by a lot of weak ones.  Despite the movie's flaws, I enjoyed some of the action sequences and the performances of Al Pacino and Robert Dinero.  It's too bad they didn't get a better script.  In short, this is an over-rated film that ran too long and that has a couple of great actors and some good action scenes.  7/10 stars.


                
The thing to strike me about HEAT is that it`s overlong . I don`t know if I`ve been watching too much MTV but a major problem I`ve had with a great number of movies coming out of Hollywood studios since the early 1990s is that they`re too long for their own good and I wish to add HEAT to this list since its running time is taken up with too many unnecessary scenes . If these scenes had been ditched at script stage not only would we have had a shorter film we`d have had a far better one . Take the scene in the coffee bar where the gang have just carried out the initial heist and Neil teaches Waingro a lesson  by banging his head off the table . Seeing as they`re shown throghout the story to be well organised , professional villains why would Neil draw attention to themselves by assaulting Waingro in this way ? It`s a scene that lacks any credibility and should not have been included . There`s another problem with too many domestic scenes , the film tries to show the audience the marital marital/romantic life of every major character , cop and robber . I know Michael Mann`s later movie THE INSIDER is also full of scenes involving home life but that`s necessary to the plot and characterisation . Here it is not HEAT isn`t by any means a bad film , on the contaray it`s a good one . DeNiro and Pacino in the same movie , boy what a casting coup . Not only that we get to see Val Kilmer when he was famous plus up and coming names like Portman , Sizemore and Fichtner , and once the story gets going it is very compelling with a breath taking shootout . Unfortunately because someone ( I`m guessing Michael Mann deserves all the blame for this ) thought they`d stretch out a two hour movie into a three hour one HEAT remains good instead of great


                
I watched this movie twice now. First a couple of years after its release and again last night. I did not remember much of the plot or character from the my first viewing which is not a good sign. I am a fan of Al Pacino and De Niro, but what a waste of talent. Al Pacino first, well he is Al Pacino playing a cop. You don't see a cop you see Al Pacino, no creativity and no effort in making the character more subtle. De Niro is quite better playing it it cool and professional with a little bit of nostalgia in his eyes, but he cannot save the movie.I could not care about the other characters in the movie. Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Ashley Judd and Tom Sizemore are usually good, but their character development was quite weak. Although the movie is pretty long, it seems that each scene was missing the point and at the end we do not feel any sympathy for any of the crew members, except De Niro. What about Dennis Haybert character, what the point ? Why adding a side story for a few minutes of interaction ?I haven't seen the original, but it seems that it is the problem of adapting the story and trying to fit everything in it, but missing important links.I put a five because of the cinematography and for the action scene that show LA from a different angle.But again, Al Pacino and De Niro in a movie and that all what we get, sad....


                
I somehow missed this movie back in the 1990s when it was popular. Recently my public library bought the BluRay version and that is what I watched. It is filled with first-rate actors and for the most part is a very gripping police and crime drama.Al Pacino is Lt. Vincent Hanna, very dedicated and focused on catching crooks and putting them away. His main nemesis is Robert De Niro as Neil McCauley, the leader of a well-organized band of big- time robbers. Among his gang are Val Kilmer as Chris Shiherlis, and Tom Sizemore as Michael Cheritto. A fixer, the kind of person who can make connections and get fake credentials is Jon Voight as Nate. All of them are good but the real focus of the movie are the Pacino and De Niro characters. In fact about half-way they meet face-to- face in a restaurant, each makes it known to the other that they intend to accomplish their missions, and we know both can't succeed.Also good are the ladies, Diane Venora as Justine Hanna, the wife who has a hard time coping with her husband's duties. And Amy Brenneman as Eady, who McCauley falls for, making his exit more difficult.SPOILERS: The big bank heist at the end, where the robbers carry out several large cases of paper money, is almost foiled but in a massive (and unrealistic) shootout in the street the robbers manage to get away. But Hanna is still looking to find an informant, he is certain that the crooks have a plan to leave L.A. for parts unknown. But when he gets the clue there is a showdown at the LAX airport, as a plane is landing shadows reveal McCauley allowing Hanna to shoot him. His vow of never going back to prison comes true.
Don't know what to really say about this film. It was cool and all especially the gun battles (which make any action movie good)...........but that's about it. Just watch the damn thing and make up your own mind.


                
Heat is an amazing movie but with the people associated this is a given. Directed by the amazing Michael mann and starring De Niro and Pacino (amongst many others) Heat is a fantastic Los Angeles crime film filled with great dialogue, fantastic characters and amazing sequences. Really, the choices you have for top notch action is hard to decide but the bank shootout takes the cake. This scene became so legendary that it inspired an actual robbery. You have to see Heat if you like character based action films. This is a treat.


                
Heat is an amazing movie but with the people associated this is a given. Directed by the amazing Michael mann and starring De Niro and Pacino (amongst many others) Heat is a fantastic Los Angeles crime film filled with great dialogue, fantastic characters and amazing sequences. Really, the choices you have for top notch action is hard to decide but the bank shootout takes the cake. This scene became so legendary that it inspired an actual robbery. You have to see Heat if you like character based action films. This is a treat.


                
An interesting thriller, it has two good ingredients, acting of excellent Italo-American actors Robert De Niro and Al Pacino. It is delightful to see both "Mafia- Godfather" actors together. Here Pacino is a policeman while De Niro is a thief. The director, Michael Mann did very well when he left enough spaces for each of them in his own role to show his problems and feelings. Pacino is tough, but with good feelings, obviously always with the obsession to capture any guilty man, in this case De Niro, no matter how and when. De Niro is a criminal, but not a vulgar one, he has some literacy and is able to love a beautiful lady. The best scene of the film is the direct dialogue Pacino- De Niro had in a cafeteria and how both politely explain their intentions. The end of the film is a bit bias, nobody will try to make justice if he/she knows that police is behind you. These last scenes remind me a bit the Western films, with a duel where the good kills the bad one.


                
A collection of fine performances turned in by all.  Good plot, decent action sequences--if a tad Holly'd up and over the top.  Only negative, and it is fortunately a minor one, is the silly Hollywood screenwriters' insistance upon inserting the ubiquitous and unnecessary "baby" at the end of some otherwise very clean and entertaining dialogue.  I mean, really......who says "baby" with a straight face these days?  If you want a really bad case of stilted dialogue, rent Heist by David Mamet.....truly cringe-worthy.  Better yet, don't rent it......just take my word for it.


                
I enjoyed this movie and thought quite highly of it the first few times I watched it. After watching again on video, I can't overlook some unrealistic aspects. The failure of the team (Deniro)to eliminate Waingro was laughable. This is a crack team of no-nonsense criminals. They would have blown him away immediately at the crime scene and removed any evidence of their M.O. or later outside the restaurant they would not have let him slip away that easily. Pacino's scene with Tone Loc is almost embarrassing. The situation with Pacino and his girlfriend and her daughter could have been more interesting.


                
Robert DeNiro and Al Pacino team up on opposite sides in this modern day thriller.  Val Kilmer, Amy Brennenman and Ashley Judd add creditability to the movie as well as the fast pace.  A little too bloody and violent at times, but the drama makes up for it.


                
The movie is 45 minutes too long (if not more), but the cast is first rate, the subplots keep you interested, and the shootout scene on a L.A. street one of the best ever filmed.Had the movie been edited down, it could have been a classic.


                
I did really like this film, good action, great story. It was a treat seeing two of the modern era's finest actors at work as well. However, I hated the ending!!! How improbable is it that De Niro, behind cover, would expose himself entirely, and Pacino, firing into the bright landing lights and having to turn 90 degrees could still get off a shot first??? Anyways, very good film and definitely watchable if only for the stellar cast.
My main reason for watching "Heat" when it was on TV tonight was to see if it was as good as I remember I thought it was when I saw it at the cinema in 1996. I was awed when I walked out of the theater that day, but I haven't seen it since so I was kind of curious. And hey, even if the film is only half as good as I thought it was back then, it's a film I want to watch again!So, yes I can say that "Heat" is almost as good as I thought it was the first time I saw it. It's a fantastic mix of thriller, action, and drama and the acting is top notch... Well; De Niro, Pacino... it's *better* than top notch. My main complaint, though, is that it is sadly too long. Had it been shorter I would have enjoyed it so much more, but it is still a quite brilliant film, very entertaining. (7/10)


                
How can a film starring Al Pacino and Robert De Niro be bad? It really can't because they would never approve the script or director. By that I mean, they would pass. The fact that neither of them passed says something.At the very least, this is a pretty good film.And it is. In fact I think this will be one of the defining films of the nineties. I suspect it will be viewed in distant eras and scrutinized for clues about the American psyche, circa 1995. Some will see a fantasy glorifying professional criminals and the men who fight them. This will be true. Others will see a morality tale about good and evil played out with women in the background, but actually in the forefront of our consciousness.I wish this part had been more fully developed.Eady, played by Amy Brennaman, chooses the man who excites her (De Niro) and ends up with nothing (but she had an exhilarating ride). Charlene, played by Ashley Judd, swaps her men around, searching for the best deal, the one who will best provide for her and the one she can best manipulate. Justine, played by Diane Venova, cannot help but choose the workaholic super cop (Pacino) because he is so superior to any other man she's ever met, particularly to her first husband, the uncaring father of her adolescent girl. But her life will never be secure because he is always leaving her alone so he can chase criminals because that is what he really loves.Some of this is a mafia-style film without the mafia. We have the same worshipful attitude toward those who thumb their noses at society and give orders that must be obeyed, super macho guys who bond together and follow the code, guys who can out shoot and out fight mere mortals. This is part of the fantasy. We see the expensive cars and the dinners with the beautiful women and the adorable children at fancy restaurants as part of the booty of being men who aren't afraid to take what they want regardless of risk. These men will always have the pick of the herd because if successful their mates know they will get a lot of the goodies of this world, and if unsuccessful, there's always the next risk taker who might succeed.This is a complex film and I would have to view it twice to make sure it all fits. Being a thriller, I know off hand that it won't. Thrillers unravel. But life is too short to view this twice, so I will say I wasn't offended by the unlikely events: the fact that the touted bank robbery scene was like a war scene filmed with surround sound effects and jittery camera immersions and bullets flying everywhere-semi-plausible even if nobody seemed to run out of ammunition. The robbery of the armored truck was nicely done except that the tire-puncturing chain strewn across the street for the pursuing cop cars seemed a bit stagy, and the whole thing required the most exquisite timing. In the uncompleted break-in there was a familiar "Mission Impossible" tension-filled race against the clock that seemed authentic, but probably wasn't. The Los Angeles environs, especially the final scene at LAX, provided atmospheric locales that made everything seem real and immediate.Where I think director Michael Mann went astray was his insistence on giving the audience the expected confrontation between the two big stars, a subplot that reached its low point with the phony bonding scene with De Niro the bad guy and Pacino the good guy having coffee together and exchanging dreams like blood brothers. This mutual admiration society was right out of some WWII film in which the American general admires the courage and cunning of his Nazi counter part and vice versa. De Niro's final line was a little corny, but Pacino's squeezing his hand reminded me of the way a big cat lovingly licks its prey after killing it. Bottom line though, Pacino and De Niro made us believe, or at least suspend judgment for awhile, and that is what Hollywood is all about.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
At first seeing the almost three hour duration, I thought this movie would take it all up to mostly unnecessary scenes. Yet the story nicely fills all the void that I now understand why Michael Mann took that long for this movie. All the characters, the many of the significant ones, get enough coverage that none of them feels like just a cardboard cut-out. All the interactions feel natural and the criminal craft looks pretty much true to reality. The action looks great; it gets very much suspenseful and also went to a grandiose level few movies nowadays would go to. One thing made the action scenes seem stupid is the perception of how many bullets can an assault rifle carry. With the rate of how the robbers shoot their rifles in full-auto mode, they should be changing magazines more often. The acting is a great job in overall. both Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro did remarkably stunning work, and their face off scenes are the best of this movie. Val Kilmer, Danny Trejo and Tom Sizemore did great also in filling for the story angles.
Robert DeNiro plays a gangster (how original) in the first role where he actually interacts with Al Pacino, who plays a cop in this dramatic suspense film. DeNiro makes a living doing heists with his crew, but it all goes wrong when one of his crew mates loses his temper and kills a couple guards during an armored truck run. In comes Pacino, assigned to the case. The movie becomes a cat and mouse chase as the bad guys keep doing crimes, and the good guys stay just a little behind. The other side to these stories are the dramatic relationship between girlfriends and protagonist. Standard relationship stuff, with Pacino even having a depressed stepdaughter with an absent dad. Unfortunately, though the acting in this film is great, this film suffers from unoriginality. It is tired storytelling with the only redeemable thing being the casting being strong therefore allowing the acting to be there. I was not a fan.7/10
I thought the movie was absolutely great until the final few moments. In the lead up to those final moments De Niro's character is moments away from freedom. And then he quite inexplicably botches it up by going after one of his former gang members who's betrayed him. This to me was a fatal flaw in the film and I thought (This one's for the writers) De Niro should've escaped with the booty, never to be seen again. The rest of the movie is just astonishingly amazing with Al Pacino playing a cop in a strenuous marriage. All the actors do a great job and justice to their characters. The camera work in the robbery scenes is just brilliant and words aren't sufficient to praise the director and the script. Just those final few moments.... Why oh why!!!!
The sorts of characters, and it is mostly low-lives, that inhabit Michael Mann's 1995 crime film opus are serial killers; thieves; ex-cons and gamblers, even those who aren't immediately applicable to those particular tags carry their own traits and flaws, one that'll see them get into hot water at some point in the piece. But to tell someone the film is possessed by these sorts of characters, however true it might be, would still be somewhat misleading as this is not the freak show of circus side-acts and dumbed down criminal caricatures one might initially think. Mann's film deals with some raw content from both sides of the law, content born out of various individuals' relationships with wives, partners and children; content born out of why it is what they do and how it can have as much-an affect on their private lives as it does their own lives.I read that it took Mann years to get the film made, doing what was perceived as a 'dumbed down' version via 1989's L.A. Takedown in the mean time. This was before Scorsese's Goodfellas arrived in 1990, a film that took the villain of the American crime film genre and fleshed him out to the point of skeletal in his being stripped bare, in doing so spawning a number of American crime films which enjoyed, within reason, deconstructing what were otherwise hard-bodied, villainous archetypes within a genre and getting under their skin in what they do, how they speak and how they operate. Nowadays people come away from such films remembering, indeed either relating to or liking more, the crime-infused villain more than anyone else, particularly if there is a 'just' co-lead. De Niro's character here joins a long list that sees mostly everyone from Liotta's Goodfellas character; to Jackon's in either Pulp Fiction or Jackie Brown; to one of the two kidnappers in 1996's Fargo; right the way through to 2008 and Ledger's recent turn in The Dark Knight.But that isn't to say crime or a criminal lifestyle is glamorised in anyway, particularly in Heat. There is a beautifully observed sub-plot, nothing more than a mere diversion which has about five total minutes of screen time, utilising a character who has just got out of prison and is beginning a crummy job at a burger joint cleaning toilets and mopping floors. Later, they are given a proposition which will lure them back into the world of crime and violence. The point here, in this brief span of sub-narrative, being that everyday work is long and arduous, while you have an initial choice in which career you take - but a life of crime, no matter how appealing or alluring, will take its toll on your life. Although the use of an African-American to enforce this point in the film may have garnered some criticism in the past.The film centres around a 'crew' of thieves, in which the leader is seemingly Robert De Niro's Neil McCauley, as enforced when they stand around following the realisation that the police are onto them and each of them seem to look to McCauley for guidance: a blurry eyed Michael Cheritto (Sizemore) somewhat weakly exclaiming "Whatever. I'm with you." to McCauley when faced with a predicament that will either change his life or end it. The others are a gambling junkie named Chris Shiherlis (Kilmer) and a Mexican named Trejo, played by Danny Trejo. On the flip-side of the coin, Al Pacino's Vincent Hanna, a serial crew foiler, attempts to rid Los Angeles of McCauley's crew in taking them down. This is perhaps where the inspiration for the title of the 1989 version of the film derives; harking back to my earlier point, the title of this film: "Heat" derives more from the criminally minded of the two sides, in particular McCauley's ideology of walking out on anything and everything if you smell the police (heat) closing in. This shifting of the title of the film from 'Takedown' (Police standpoint/goal) to 'Heat' (Criminal standpoint/ideology) only emphasises the post-Goodfellas idea of bringing everything round so that there's more of a weight on the fact the 'bad guys' are, at the end of the day, human as well. The film is polished, its mostly night-set cinematography decked out in navy blue, but its idea of a life in crime is quite ugly. The stark, harsh font used in the opening credits is metallic and uneasy on the eye; thus juxtaposing the 'look' of the film. It is a film that'll see the thief interact with a women in a loving manner, whilst at a book shop of all places, in a sequence that is soft and melancholy in its construction, before sleeping with her; but then cut to the police badgering and bullying a scrapyard employee. In another piece of work, the scenes would've stuck but the roles might've been reversed to enforce the inhumane and hard-bodied nature of the gangster and the good-hearted, kind, loving and melancholy nature of the chief cop.Heat essentially sees two individuals at the peak of their game go against one another, with whatever they have in the form of backup tailing them around. The fates of those on either side range from potential injury during full blown, breath-taking shoot outs with automatic weaponry in the streets of the city to more smaller things, such as a member of a SWAT team accidentally bumping into the side of a truck trailer, thus alerting the thieves to their presence. It's a film about crime, violence and procedure; but it is additionally concerned with genre archetypes as human beings, those whom feel; dream; realise flaws and balance marital issues. As far as attention to the intricacies of both character and plot go, as well as a number of other film-making conventions, Heat is a really creditable effort.


                
I think the movie was fine, although I do expected a better script when I saw that two of the greatest actors, Al Pacino and Di Niro, are in the movie. The movie may look to be quite long, especially in the beginning. But anyways, the performance by both the actors was great. The shootout scene was one of the finest I've seen. I loved the way Di Niro played Neil Mccauley. He was obviously the best choice for the character. Al Pacino played the role of Vincent very well too. He described his life as a "disaster zone", and the film was able to show it. His inability to help sustain his relationship with his wife. The ending was nice, I felt at first it to be a bit stretched out, but I realized it was just fine. The ending moment was nice and was able to get me on the edge of my seat.
When a brilliant master thief and his group of professional bank robbers accidentally leave a clue to their next heist, they start to feel the heat from the LA police force.This film starred: Al Pacino, Robert De Niro & Val Kilmer.HEAT was released in 1995 and is a good cop thriller. First of all just like The Godfather trilogy, Scarface & Carlito's way Al Pacino is a fantastic in this film. Robert De Niro was also really good in this film. These are without saying two are the best actors in the business. Michael Mann also did well directing in this film. I do recommend this film because although slow in some scenes, HEAT is a good film overall, and when Robert De Niro and Al Pacino square off it is not to be missed. A great climax to a 2 hour 45 minute movie.***/***** Good film.
One could hardly ask for more than to see Al Pacino and Robert De Niro perform together in an engrossing action drama, and Heat definitely provides the thrill that is expected from a film with such a star-studded cast. Along with the two very strong leading performances, this crime drama also puts on display the terrific filmmaking abilities of Michael Mann, who manages to bring a great deal of passion and the feeling of sensation to the genre. The story is rather typical, but the unexpected emphasis on character development lifts the film, as interpersonal relationships are explored in a very compelling way. Although the film is perhaps a bit too long, and as a result feels slightly flat at times, it is carried by tremendous acting and ultimately does offer the audience a very solid ending. Heat succeeds in presenting the duality between the police and the criminals, while also providing the necessary action alongside it, which ultimately does differentiate the film from others in its genre.


                
Michael Mann's remake of his own L. A. TAKEDOWN boasts impressive performances from two powerhouse actors of the late 20th century - Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. It's a surprise that the two actors haven't been matched before, seeing that they are so alike - same age, same appearance, same intensity. Frankly, any film in which these two face a brutal showdown was going to be intense, and HEAT doesn't disappoint. In fact, it's one of the best, most realistic portrayals of criminal life since GOODFELLAS. Eschewing all-out action in favour of plot development, this is a film which really makes you care about the characters - even if they are all criminals, and murderers at that. Most of the screen time is given to showing us the parallels in Pacino's and De Niro's lives, their relationships, and gives us a character study of the two men, for whom work is the number one priority.Al Pacino comes off worse in this case. Although putting in an impressive performance, this reviewer was constantly detached from his character, who basically doesn't possess a single character trait that makes him likable. He treats his colleagues and family like dirt. Yes, he might be brilliant, but at what price? The other reason for one to hate Pacino's character is because he's dedicated to catching De Niro, and De Niro is such a likable character that you don't want anybody to seriously oppose him. It's a testament to De Niro's acting ability that you end up liking a super criminal who shoots people in cold blood. It should be the other way round, surely? After Pacino and De Niro, there is a solid supporting cast of actors to fill out the roles of De Niro's criminal gang. Tom Sizemore, a family man who lives for the rush of a bank job; Val Kilmer, a hopeless gambling addict who just needs the money; and the ubiquitous Jon Voight, De Niro's shady contact. All three men are as equally as impressive as the two leads, but in a smaller way.For action fans, there isn't really much in the way of gun battles to get excited about, with one major exception: the street battle between the cops and the criminals. This one lasts for at least quarter of an hour, and has to be one of the most accurate and relentless battles I've ever seen. It's very good. However action isn't really what this film is about, it's about family values, loyalty, betrayal, and honour. And who can forget the ending? It wouldn't work anywhere else but here, and it's sheer brilliance.
I saw Heat when it first came out to theaters back in 1995. I also recently saw The Town. Many people claim Heat is the better picture and that Town took its story and basic plot elements from Heat.Even though there are similarities, I think The Town doesn't deserve most of the criticism and Heat doesn't deserve most of the acclaim. In my opinion Heat is way too long. The director (Michael Mann whom I like) wanted to show too much about the personal love affairs of the characters. I know this was done for the purpose of character development but it was too shallow and didn't develop anything. It was too shallow because the problem of each love affair was the same: character's job (either police or criminal). And the same thing was repeated for all 3 characters, Vincent (Al Pacino), Neil (Robert De Niro) and Chris (Val Kilmer). They all have problems in their relationships. I think the movie is trying to do too much; it should have either focused on the relationships of characters and made it a drama or should have focused on the crime aspect and made it action/suspense. For example, in the beginning we see Al Pacino making love to his wife, taking a shower, all long scenes, and then there are scenes where his step daughter Lauren (Natalie Portman) is arguing with his mother because she is unhappy about her father. I thought these scenes really didn't add anything to the story.I also think the some scenes in Heat is too much Hollywoodized - it's funny because most people actually make this accusation about the Town. My examples are ******SPOILER ALERT*****: Robert De Niro is supposedly a very disciplined character (so disciplined that he can leave everything behind if he senses the heat around the corner). But then we see him slapping one of his team members in a diner where everyone is watching. Tom Sizemore gives a dirty look to one of the patrons. I thought this scene was totally Hollywoodish to show they are really tough guys. Why would a disciplined criminal would beat up his team member in a diner? That would draw attention and is risky. Later we see them outside the diner trying to finish up the job. They are about to take care of the guy but they lose him, right in front of their eyes. All these scenes made me dislike The Heat. Also at the very end, it is the wrong guy who gets shot. It is the wrong guy because he had major advantage over the other guy who should have been the one to get shot. That scene was poorly designed*******.There are good things about heat. It is a fine crime/drama. Robert De Niro is great although I find his romantic affair to be unrealistic and lack of feeling. I think Heat probably deserves a rating of 7. I also predict that within a year or so, The Town will surpass Heat's rating.
OK...I like this movie. I like Michael Mann in general. But the idea that "Heat" is some kind of definitive crime movie is pretty silly.It does get lots of points for being a very long movie that never really drags at all. But it would still have been much better with a half-hour (or more) cut out of it. The film school touches intended to produce an "epic" nearly all misfire; the VERY strong supporting cast somehow keeps several of them from turning into major LOL moments.The performances of the leads are wildly overrated by IMDb members. Pacino mugs his way through this, as he does most of his films since "Scarface." DeNiro is much better but nowhere near the top of his game. People always praise Val Kilmer for "keeping up" with these icon guys, but the reality is they aren't running all that hard to begin with. That said, Kilmer is good here, as is the entire supporting cast.Crime movies don't have to be realistic to be great (see "Sin City") but it's incredible how many people think Michael Mann makes "realistic" action films. Yeah, he's obsessed with technical details and gets them right more often than most directors. But there's just about nothing realistic about "Heat" or "Collateral"; they both exist in a make-believe LA populated by make-believe good guys and bad guys. Frankly, if you think Mann's crime films are true-to-life, then everything you know comes from movies and TV and headline news.Don't get me wrong here; I highly recommend you see "Heat" and "Collateral" - they are both extremely well-made and pretty damn riveting. But if seeing either one is some kind of life high point for you, I'd respectfully suggest you need to get a new life.


                
